ethnic tensions america is most troublesome right now good bet be tension blacks jews new york city seem jackie mason veteran jewish comedian appearing new abc sitcom airing tuesday nights p.m. edt not only is mr. mason star chicken soup 's also inheritor comedic tradition dating back duck soup 's currently man hot water here neutral language is gist mr. mason remarks quoted first village voice was paid spokesman rudolph giuliani mayoral campaign then newsweek campaign parted company mr. mason said many jewish voters feel guilty blacks support black candidates uncritically said many black voters feel bitter racial discrimination too support black candidates uncritically said jews have contributed more black causes years course mr. mason did not use neutral language practitioner ethnic humor old days borscht belt live television nightclub circuit mr. mason instinctively reached vernacular said jews were sick complexes called david dinkins mr. giuliani black opponent fancy shvartze mustache mr. mason had used less derogatory language articulate amateur analysis voting behavior fellow new yorkers water be quite so hot probably few none people upset mr. mason remarks have bothered distinguish substance comments fact used insulting language addition mr. mason critics have implied type ethnic humor is form racism example new york state counsel naacp said mr. mason is dinosaur people are fast leaving place is stuck critics fail distinguish type ethnic humor aims disparaging group such polish jokes type is double-edged aiming inward as well outward latter typically is humor underdog was perfected blacks jews minstrel vaudeville stage means mocking white gentile audiences hands zealot lenny bruce double-edged blade cut self audience ribbons wielded pro jackie mason is constructive form mischief constructive media prattle comedy politics not mixing are similar respect serve mechanisms easing tensions facilitating co-existence groups conflict 's 's dangerous have well-intentioned thought police college campuses elsewhere taboo critical mention group differences elizabeth kristol wrote new york times just mason donnybrook perhaps intolerance not boil such intensity honest differences were allowed simmer question is group conflicts still exist undeniably do mr. mason type ethnic humor is passe then other means do have letting steam do n't say tv sitcom happens be genre desperate need attract everybody offend nobody resembles politics more does comedy is true best sitcoms do allow group differences simmer yuppies blue-collar bostonians cheers children adults cosby show are not differences make headlines chicken soup mr. mason plays jackie jewish bachelor courting maddie lynn redgrave irish widow mother wishes mother rita karin brother michael brandon maggart worth noting disapproving relatives are immigrants least speak strong accents do jackie maddie n't be more obvious chicken soup is being made old recipe safe imagine romance question were orthodox jew member nation islam back 1920s play movie versions abie irish rose made theme courtship assimilated offspring jewish irish immigrants so popular author anne nichols lost plagiarism suit grounds plot has entered public domain has remained there evidenced reappearance cbs sitcom called bridget loves bernie sole distinction was led real-life marriage meredith baxter david birney clearly question chicken soup is not pot boil simmer far bubbles have been few far between part problem is tendency sitcoms ever didactic days norman lear preach social issues extent tendency emerges show tries enlighten ethnic stereotypes reversing instance michael dislikes jackie not 's shrewd jewish businessman quits well-paying job salesman order become social worker even more problematic is incompatibility sitcom preachiness mr. mason comic persona best moments show occur beginning end occasionally middle mr. mason slips standup mode starts meting old-fashioned jewish mischief other people as well too often routines lack spark sitcom sitcoms is timid confronting mr. mason stock trade ethnic differences 'm not suggesting producers start putting together episodes topics catholic-jewish dispute carmelite convent auschwitz issue racial tensions new york city have cool not heat simmer am suggesting stop requiring mr. mason interrupt classic shtik line caring other people sound shmaltzy lips miss america age jackie know n't make soup turning flame