senate democrats favor cutting capital-gains tax are n't ready line leading senate proposal reluctance support proposal is blow capital-gains cut has had roller-coaster existence beginning year was considered dead then suddenly revived was passed house nevertheless oregon sen. bob packwood ranking gop member tax-writing senate finance committee last night introduced plan amendment pending measure authorizing u.s. aid poland hungary senate majority leader george mitchell d. maine was confident had enough votes block maneuver procedural grounds perhaps as soon today mr. packwood conceded defeat telling mr. mitchell sense stage have votes lawmakers sparred highly personal fashion violating usual senate decorum tone was good-natured mr. packwood saying intended offer proposal again again future legislation sen. mitchell saying intended use procedural means block again again proposal authored mr. packwood sen. william roth r. del. appears have general backing republicans votes are n't sufficient pass democrats are increasing pressure leaders reject gains-tax cut are finding reasons say no least now major reason is believe packwood-roth plan lose buckets revenue long run packwood-roth proposal reduce tax depending long asset was held also create new individual retirement account shield taxation appreciation investments made wide variety purposes including retirement medical expenses first-home purchases tuition number are not going touch capital gains iras anything else contributes deficit-reduction said sen. charles robb d. va. is democrats bush administration believes favor giving preferential treatment capital gains president bush has been hearing kind opposition first hand meetings past days democratic senators white house luncheon meeting tuesday democratic senators was outspoken opposition cutting capital-gains tax year according participants trend is making advocates tax cut less optimistic success is one-out-of-three shot getting year said sen. david boren oklahoma leading democratic proponent cutting capital-gains tax called battle uphill other democrats favor capital-gains cut are even more pessimistic be capital-gains bill year said sen. dale bumpers d. ark 'm probably not going vote capital-gains proposal ira portion packwood-roth plan is irresponsible significant factor capitalgains debate is extent has become purely political battle president bush senate majority leader mitchell mr. mitchell has made clear wavering colleagues issue is important personally today sen. mitchell other leading democrats plan turn heat again holding news conference bash proposal estimates requested sen. mitchell congressional joint taxation committee show richest taxpayers got average benefit capital-gains differential last year figures are available white house officials acknowledged yesterday democrats still are reluctant publicly express support packwood-roth capital gains proposal are loath buck sen. mitchell result officials said are open making variety deals senate democrats win support capital-gains tax cut democrats asked week discussions president bush have suggested ways tinkering packwood-roth proposal suggesting interest looking modified version back official said addition white house aides think are numerous other important measures democrats badly wanted passed such scaling back controversial catastrophic health-care plan elderly provide president leverage cutting deals democrats capital-gains tax cut be paired such measures help ensure passage other possibilities include child-care initiative increase minimum wage n't secure immediate passage capital-gains plan administration officials also are n't ruling making deal congress put vote firm date future even next year officials insist deal future vote have apply house senate gerald f. seib contributed article japanese immigration authorities said found more chinese vietnamese boat people bringing number chinese trying enter japan posing vietnamese refugees year japan plans send chinese back home is negotiating chinese government justice ministry official said chinese were boat people supposedly vietnam arrived japan year compared official said chinese have been refugee-assistance center were sent immigration facilities yesterday deportation china official said sept. japan began policy screening boat people accepting only deemed be political refugees francoise verne 52-year-old former deputy director france mint faces prison theft rare coins mint collections second command mrs. verne told paris court great disorder reigned agency led temptation inventory showed disappearance coins valued french francs had n't been stock-taking tony lambert mrs. verne successor says mint losses theft run hundreds thousands francs el salvador is destroying more pounds food had rotted government warehouses government officials said state supply regulator institute is burn rice corn beans spoiled neglect corruption previous christian democrat government statement information service sisal said past administration foodstuffs were first bought institute then sold low prices unscrupulous businessmen resold institute inflated prices statement said black-draped cruise liner sailed naples yesterday bringing libyans threatening vengeance italy refuses pay compensation more years colonial rule libyans were already italy stage day mourning victims italy colonial rule tripoli says rome kidnapped libyans deported as forced labor libya revolutionary committees have threatened attacks italians rome does n't pay compensation officials rome say issue was legally resolved settlement italy king idris deposed col. muammar gadhafi canadian indians are taking countries court bid stop low military flights homes dutch defense ministry said representatives inuit cree peoples living quebec labrador northeastern canada told ministry planned action meeting ministry spokesman said also wanted prevent nato training base being built region said action canadian federal court be canada netherlands west germany britain u.s. ministry spokesman said japan suspended imports french mushrooms finding contaminated radiation official ministry health welfare said japan has been testing imported food europe april chernobyl accident soviet union spokesman said then ministry has announced bans food imports european countries including italy spain turkey greece soviet union venice city council is battling plans tap huge gas fields coast says speed city slow sinking lagoon agip state-owned energy giant made announcement gas field last month located miles northeast venice field contains cubic feet methane gas one-tenth italy reserves alarmed councilors say project jeopardize costly efforts stop slow subsidence makes venice subject regular destructive flooding council unanimously opposed idea agip pumping methane gas swiftly appealed company prime minister giulio andreotti has yet reply agip refused reconsider says drilling is due start early next year 's unlikely extracting gas cause subsidence says spokeswoman thieves stole 12th century fresco abandoned church camerino italy removing entire wall work had been painted police said west germany bmw commissioned nuremberg post office test prototype battery-powered car vehicle has top speed miles hour requires recharging standard wall socket miles