hugo's blast generates pleas aid south carolina small businesses small business administration has received more formal requests disaster loans hurricane % requests sba relief loans also are available homeowners come small businesses compared % business share most disasters sba expects make hurricane hugo loans disaster fund is replenished loan repayments hardest hit hugo south carolina were small retailers tied tourist industry businesses agriculture cultivated seafood state development board set hugo hotline accept business-to-business help nbc weather man willard scott broadcast hot-line number was flooded calls last week u.s. chamber commerce began using national tv show seek help such equipment business owners local bankers accountants help applicants fill forms helps people feel better talking someone 's gone same thing sba official says health benefits remain central lobbying effort even section fades senate deleting section repeal deficit-reduction bill still is expected join house voting kill law forces companies provide comparable benefits laborers executives alike lobbying other health-coverage topics national federation independent business press legislation give self-employed people % tax deduction own health plans % currently group urge federal government pre-empt state rules be covered employers health insurance small-business groups also fight medical-leave provision legislation expand parental leaves still oppose too costly employer-paid health insurance bill sponsored sen. edward kennedy d. mass proposal phase small business only gradually is also worry pepper commission studying long-term health care again push lawmakers employerpaid solutions section victory have downside making harder oppose lawmakers other health proposals repeal section no longer say 're discouraging businesses offering health plans says christine russell chamber commerce small-business advocate jumping the gun sen. lloyd bentsen d. texas was outraged private word john motley lobbyist national federation independent business resulted news release saying senate finance committee chairman recommend repeal section even announcement was true end was issued senator permission blew mr. motley says apologetically was timing mistake prison-shop blues sen. strom thurmond r. s.c protests pending legislation end preference federal prison system gets selling prisoner-made furniture other goods government agencies small-business suppliers want prisons stop getting high priority especially prison production grows swelling inmate populations last year prisons sales pentagon totaled repair shops scrap more access work auto-emissions systems groups representing independent auto-repair shops join compromise clean air legislation worked environmentalists rep. henry waxman d. calif plan increase warranty auto-emission systems years miles years major parts warranty simpler parts be lowered years miles garage owners say benefit car owners be less likely go back dealers simpler repairs years repair shops are n't united however shops represented automotive service industry association motor equipment manufacturers association oppose increase warranty length say longer warranty longer customers automatically return new-car dealers then find non-warranty work otherwise go repair shops house energy committee debate issue later month stan hathcock atlanta garage owner opposes longer warranty estimates current plan costs as much year lost business small talk % graduates recently earned m.b.a. degree say prefer work own small company most take jobs large concerns says survey foster mckay group new york recruiting firm cardinal scientific inc. waldorf md. seeks small business innovation research grant produce nozzle assembly army mass delousing outfit