walter yetnikoff president sony corp. cbs records last month told producer peter guber sony was make bid columbia pictures needed someone run studio mr. guber jumped chance days was way new york tokyo meet top brass sony week was out sony had offered mr. guber partner jon peters most lucrative employment contracts history movie business not only sony also agreed give stake columbia future profits buy company guber peters entertainment co. almost % more market value company was just sticking point had prior commitment just months earlier had signed five-year exclusive contract make movies warner bros. had just produced smash hit batman mr. guber figured warner communications inc. chairman steven ross empathize let producers go knowing sony offer was culmination life work figured wrong last week following fruitless settlement talks warner now merging time inc. filed breach contract suit los angeles superior court sony guber peters sony promptly countersued charging warner trying sabotage acquisitions hurt efforts enter u.s. movie business accusations lying duplicity are flying thick fast sides sony executive puts 's world war iii successful producers are n't well known hollywood occasion such clash corporate titans suggests desperate quest proven talent is movie business are very odd team case mr. guber was raised boston educated new york is lawyer string academic degrees mr. peters is high-school dropout came fame barbra streisand hairdresser yet are far away most prolific producers hollywood share duds make movies make money is skill sony badly needs warner is loath lose columbia had good summer ghostbusters ii harry met sally rivals such warner paramount pictures walt disney co. universal studios have been thrashing columbia box office years management turmoil different studio heads columbia sorely needs stable savvy team restore credibility get back business making hits mr. guber mr. peters are n't universally loved hollywood are well connected stock trade executive producers is sniffing hot properties locking then getting big studios bankroll distribute sometimes mr. guber mr. peters do little more grab first draft screenplay flashdance buy rights best seller such color purple falls others do writing directing producing rainman instance messrs. guber peters had virtually nothing do day-to-day production names still appear big letters credits are inevitably associated success sometimes batman pair really do make film case guber peters acquired rights nursed movie dozen scripts were set london months hovering most minute changes casting production 're best production talent says brian de palma beholden guber peters hiring direct warner movie tom wolfe novel bonfire vanities film is start shooting few months 've been very much involved hiring talent discussing development script 're making movie big need help get mr. de palma adds wish were around hours day movies seem have been hurt inattention warner executives blame mr. guber mr. peters lack involvement caddyshack ii casting production problems film ultimate dismal failure 've had few bombs admits mr. peters large company has only been profitable says company prowess packaging marketing is be good columbia practically ran own studio longtime hollywood associates describe mr. guber intellectual powerhouse man flair deal-making marketing peter is major piece hollywood manpower has really earned success says robert bookman agent creative artists agency mark johnson producer rainman chimes has great ability hire terrific people delegate authority 's accident 've been able develop such successful material mr. peters other hand has fewer fans hollywood detractors like characterize something hot-tempered bully gets better reviews creative whiz enthusiast idea man also had fight harder credibility partner did barbra streisand made famous cut hair lived came produce records movies star is born main event thrice married now single mr. peters got plenty ink last summer on-set romance actress kim basinger making batman mr. guber contrast has been married woman more years intellectual stylistic differences make perfect good cop bad cop team hollywood associates say peter is bright sympathetic guy 're doing deal says agent 's problem peter disappears sudden jon shows mr. guber mr. peters rub many people hollywood wrong way producers don simpson jerry bruckheimer shepherded flashdance several scripts ultimately produced movie bristle messrs. guber peters take credit film says mr. simpson script was unreadable reinvented are producers movie got small piece net profits screen credit executive producers roger birnbaum executive worked guber peters early 1980s left take job head production united artists studio made forfeit credits financial interest films had helped develop including rainman batman mr. peters acknowledges says 's not situation mr. guber are warner was upset roger fumpered schmumpered says mr. peters wanted pursue own dream went still mr. birnbaum says relationship guber peters was most successful 've had hollywood have wonderful chemistry jon is very impulsive peter is very compulsive adds mr. birnbaum is now head production news corp. 20th century fox film co jon peters come barreling room say 's got great idea be gone peter take kernel idea make grow something specific mr. birnbaum recalls mr. guber mr. peters shifted high gear few years back learning had competition story murdered naturalist dian fossey became gorillas mist says few weeks made deals government rwanda everyone had ever met talked dian fossey think peter even made deals gorillas universal studios was working competing film studio producers ultimately agreed co-produce film guber peters warner more recently guber peters beat dozen other producers reportedly including robert redford ted turner rights life story chico mendes murdered brazilian union leader fought developers amazon rain forest messrs. guber peters assiduously courted man widow months showing tape gorillas mist impress quality work money helped too ultimately paid more rights sale caused rift widow husband followers money go chico mendes foundation is n't earmarked groups trying save rain forest 's hardly astonishing given men track record sony wants mr. guber mr. peters is puzzling hollywood executives sony rushed hire clearing warner situation first note sony have saved trouble just hiring mr. guber letting mr. peters stay fulfill warner contract people town ask guber needs peters 's good have partner obviously chemistry works says steven tisch producer once worked mr. guber business is n't personalities end day s ink is red black case peter jon ink has been very very black mr. guber got start movie business columbia decades ago recruited new york university mba program rose years head production overseeing such films way were taxi driver tommy shampoo teamed record producer neil bogart casablanca records filmworks later called polygram pictures produced such hits deep midnight express mr. guber got together mr. peters then successful producer own right death mr. bogart guber peters produced number hits warner others record was n't always so impressive clinkers were legend billie jean visionquest clue clan cave bear failures make possible warner current lawsuit paint producers ingrates studio says stuck even early years creative partnership was not particularly profitable warner mr. guber replies is goliath time warner trying chew fellows have done only well long period time mr. guber mr. peters maintain executives warner have always known ambitions run major entertainment powerhouse warner never felt threatened linked sony beginning knew had goal dream says mr. guber number occasions adds tried get warner buy guber peters outright always listened never acted mr. guber says mr. guber mr. peters contributed company assets exchange % stake barris entertainment small-fry tv production company controlled giant industries inc. chairman burt sugarman july year later warner agreed release producers old contract messrs. guber peters sugarman made offer buy % mr. guber mr. peters planned run nearly dormant mgm studio even tried interest warner bros president terry semel becoming partner advised deal mgm plan collapsed just weeks later mr. guber mr. peters say got look books balked price relationship mr. sugarman soured shortly thereafter last may sold % stake barris passive australian investor barris was renamed guber peters entertainment co meanwhile mr. guber mr. peters had agreed extend warner agreement new five-year exclusive contract new deal was considered most generous kind financially terms creative freedom paled comparison sony was offer last month chance last run major studio about deferred compensation % columbia future cash flow % future appreciation columbia market value annual salaries producers % share publicly held guber peters net additional sony also agreed indemnify producers liability warner sony is paying hefty price company had revenue only last year earnings have been erratic latest quarter thanks part batman guber peters earned cents share compared loss cents share last year quarter guber peters stock traded as low share last year closed yesterday sides now are accusing other lying mr. guber mr. peters claim have oral agreement warner executives allows terminate contract opportunity run major studio arise affidavits filed yesterday los angeles court mr. ross warner bros. chairman robert daly president semel deny such oral agreement was ever made warner court filings calls piece fiction created litigation mr. daly affidavit acknowledges warner agreed release producers last year take mgm says situation was altogether different thing according mr. daly producers requested release advance moreover old contract was expire lineup guber peters pictures warner was n't as strong is now warner was negotiations mgm certain movie other rights was warner interest accommodate guber peters permitting become mgm executives mr. daly said affidavit warner obviously does n't think is own interests let mr. guber mr. peters go columbia very least mr. ross clearly sees opportunity use men get pound flesh sony settlement talks example warner demanded such things cable tv rights columbia movies columbia interest studio jointly owns warner according executives involved talks settlement warner is almost certain demand rights most so projects mr. guber mr. peters have locked next few years notably sequels batman mr. guber mr. peters refuse concede have made tactical error accepting sony offer taking warner say are plenty precedents hollywood letting people contracts last time columbia pictures was looking studio chief note warner released producer david puttnam contract then took back was subsequently fired bosses columbia affidavit filed yesterday warner mr. ross indicated is n't buying such argument sony succeeds here written contract hollywood be worth paper 's written