economic tension u.s. japan worsening many japanese had feared last week visit u.s. trade representative carla hills expected new barrage demands japan do something quickly reduce trade surplus u.s instead got discussion need u.s. japan work together importance long-term view mrs. hills first trip japan america chief trade negotiator had completely different tone last month visit commerce secretary robert a. mosbacher mr. mosbacher called concrete results next spring negotiations fundamental japanese business practices supposedly inhibit free trade said such results be measurable dollars cents reducing u.s. trade deficit japan mrs. hills speaking breakfast meeting american chamber commerce japan saturday stressed objective is not get definitive action spring summer is rather have blueprint action added expected perhaps have down payment small step convince american people japanese people 're moving earnest such remarks translate policy n't become clear months american japanese officials offered several theories difference approach betwen mr. mosbacher mrs. hills many called simply contrast styles saw classic negotiating tactic others said bush administration feel rhetoric sides is getting hand said reflected growing debate washington pursuing free trade japan kind managed trade asked compare visit mr. mosbacher mrs. hills replied did n't hear word spoke general proposition think have very consistent trade strategy bush administration yet more american official sat days talks japanese officials said tone often was surprisingly conciliatory think line has been very consistent mrs. hills said news conference saturday afternoon am painted sometimes ferocious perhaps have ferocious list statutes implement do n't feel very ferocious do n't feel hard soft feel committed program opening markets expanding trade met local press first time friday mrs. hills firmly reiterated need progress removing barriers trade forest products satellites supercomputers areas targeted super 301 provision trade bill highlighted exclusionary business practices u.s. government has identified main thrust was promote importance world-wide free trade open competition said trade imbalance was mainly due macroeconomic factors n't be tackled setting quantitative targets news conference japanese reporters economics journalist summed japanese sense relief impression was be scary old lady said drawing few nervous chuckles colleagues am relieved see are beautiful gentle intelligent person integrity mrs. hills remarks did raise questions least u.s. officials exactly stance is u.s. access japanese semiconductor market u.s. share japanese market has been stuck % years many americans have interpreted agreement assuring u.s. companies % share japanese have denied making such promise news conferences mrs. hills said believe do much better % stressed am managed trade not enter agreement stipulates percentage market