first indoor air-pollution cases go trial state-court jury decided favor defendant burlington industries inc verdict reached late last week cincinnati end eight-year legal battle greensboro n.c. carpet maker glenn sharon beebe cincinnati had sued com pany installing burlington carpets office beebes alleged toxic fumes carpets made sick result illness beebes said lost wages earnings addition said months exposure chemicals has left sensitive wide range commonly used substances case had been closely watched attorneys anticipate increasing litigation nationally so-called sick-building syndrome plaintiffs lawyers say buildings become sick inadequate fresh air poor ventilation systems lead pollutants build inside anthony j. iaciofano lawyer burlington said company believes beebes symptoms were not related carpeting said ill effects new carpets manifest immediately beebes symptoms appeared months later catherine adams beebes lawyer said verdict not discourage other plaintiffs filing such suits scientists are only beginning understand causes sick-building syndrome much research was unavailable beebes filed case said beebes now believe prime culprit injuries was fumes adhesive used carpeting beebes did n't come conclusion time limits had elapsed adding adhesives maker defendant case ms. adams said beebes have not yet decided appeal times square development opponents are dealt setback appellate division new york state supreme court dismissed lawsuits attempting block project planned 42nd street manhattan opponents project had claimed city state new york are co-sponsoring project had failed adhere environmental guidelines so lawsuits have been filed project approval have been dismissed trial stage remain have n't yet reached pre-trial fact-finding stage state officials said court ruling clears way proceedings condemn buildings area project is ready move said state urban development corp. chairman vincent tese developers planned office towers cautioned obstacles still remain part agreement state developers partnership park tower realty prudential insurance co. america said not proceed condemnation proceedings was significant litigation pending park tower general counsel matthew mayer said development team have review additional lawsuits putting letter credit cover condemnation costs also said partnership is waiting see appellate division ruling be appealed plan has been plagued delays business-related setbacks seeks transform area seedy thoroughfare more wholesome office theater district state city officials are still negotiating developers renovate historic theaters build operate merchandise mart hotel federal judge expands role u.s. courts extradition decisions u.s. district judge jack b. weinstein brooklyn n.y. ruled man implicated attack israeli passenger bus be extradited israel trial magistrate had initially refused request ruling attack had been political act man mahmoud el-abed ahmad be exempt extradition however judge weinstein wrote opinion late last month terrorism acts war civilians not be defined political acts judge weinstein also ruled judges consider prior extradition defendant be treated fairly foreign court do so judge said u.s. courts review judicial process foreign country independently state department assessment said case concurred state department decision mr. ahmad be extradited mr. ahmad lawyer said appeal lawyers close case said believed ruling was unprecedented now courts have said is not role supervise foreign country courts said jacques semmelman assistant u.s. attorney case former canadian ambassador u.s. allan e. gotlieb has joined philadelphia law firm pepper hamilton scheetz consultant mr. gotlieb serves consultant stikeman elliott canada biggest law firms is advising pepper hamilton washington office legal matters related canadian-u.s. investment corporate finance international transactions quotable speech prepared delivery new york yesterday retired justice lewis powell contested notion last supreme court term marked turn conservatism commentators agreed little else unanimously proclaimed shift direction court take pronouncements many have preceded past years grain salt era sound bites instant opinion polls is dangerous apply broad labels single term