attack own listed companies powerful floor traders new york stock exchange is considering reinstituting collar program trading abandoned last year according people familiar big board exchange also step disclosure firms engaged program trading people said big board officials n't comment publicly interview called stock market volatility national problem big board chairman john j. phelan jr. said are going try do things short intermediate term help situation mr. phelan has been viewed many exchange members being indifferent stock-price swings caused program trades said is very surprised furor program trading exchange role has raged recent days mr. phelan said big board has been trying deal quietly issue banning computer-assisted trading strategies entirely investors want be taking everybody automobile making ride horse exchange has board meeting scheduled tomorrow is expected public announcement be made big board officials have been seige investors exchange own floor traders dow jones industrial average 190-point tumble oct. mr. phelan has n't been making public remarks recent days many people have urged take more leadership role program trading issue big board is considering is re-establishing collar program trading market moves significantly early last year 140-point one-day drop dow big board instituted collar banned program trading big board computers dow moved points up down day did n't work collar was penetrated number occasions meaning securities firms figured ways conduct program trades circumvent collar use big board electronic trading system mr. phelan said was exchange took new tack publishing monthly statistics listing top program trading firms exchange officials emphasized big board is considering variety actions deal program trading people familiar exchange said idea likely be approved is expanding monthly reports program trading cover specific days even hours heavy program trading was doing meanwhile big wall street brokerage firm joined others have been pulling program trading american express co. shearson lehman hutton inc. unit said ceased index-arbitrage program trading client accounts stock-index arbitrage traders buy sell large amounts stock offsetting trades stock-index futures profit fleeting price discrepancies markets shearson september was 11th-biggest program trader big board had already suspended stock-index arbitrage own account also cs first boston inc. first boston corp. unit fifth-biggest program trader september is preparing response program-trading outcry officials firm said first boston is few major wall street firms have n't pulled program trading recent days mr. phelan is adroit diplomat normally appears be solidly control big board factions has been getting heat sides program trading mr. phelan recent remarks investors simply get used stock-market volatility program trading have drawn criticism exchange stock specialists make markets individual stocks many companies have shares listed big board mr. phelan said predicting continued volatility is just world is bringing message is crime 'm guilty said does n't mean is satisfied market big swings 're trying take care heck lot constituents mr. phelan said one has different agenda example special meeting monday mr. phelan senior officials big board stock specialist firms complained exchange is longer representing interests are looking representation have n't had specialist said 've had dictation session mr. phelan held yesterday major brokerage firms such morgan stanley co. goldman sachs co. painewebber group inc. first boston have engaged program trading executive top brokerage firm said clearly firms want exchange take leadership many specialist firms resent big board new basket product allows institutions buy sell stocks standard poor 500-stock index shot ultimately specialists view yet step electronic trading eventually destroy franchise phelan own interests are building electronic marketplace said market maker basket product has got slow start is being supported big brokerage firms member mr. phelan splintered constituency mr. phelan has had difficulty convincing public big board is serious curbing volatility especially exchange clearly relishes role home stock-index funds buy huge baskets stocks mimic popular stock-market indexes standard poor sometimes employ program trading big board wants keep such index funds fleeing overseas markets only as long handles intelligently mr. phelan said investors are suggesting big board is n't even considering total ban program trading stock futures exchange officials said most revisions propose be geared slowing program trading stressful periods said officials working exchange computers have made trading more rapid be fixed fine-tuning think speed things slow mr. phelan said 's different wrecking volatility n't go away said volatility is greater program trading 'm trying say people is 's proper worry program trading 's only piece business example mr. phelan said big institutions have so much control public investments cause big swings market regardless index arbitrage lot people like go back program trading said like go back 're not going back indeed mr. phelan said stock-market volatility persists u.s. lose edge being best place raise capital japan markets are more stable said continues significant number u.s companies go there raise money coming days big board formulates responses program-trading problem mr. phelan take more public role issue lewis l. glucksman vice chairman smith barney harris upham co. said is problem 's taking life own program trading situation seems have driven individual investors as well others market even europeans are suspicious exchange take pro-active position now however mr. phelan said refuse get out there tell everybody everything is hunky-dory have major problem problem is volatility craig torres contributed article