stock market stumbled getting strong start closed mixed lackluster trading bargain-hunting futures-related program buying lifted prices outset rise proved short-lived concerns week economic reports potential further losses stocks weighed investors selected blue-chip issues attracted buying interest however dow jones industrial average stayed positive territory entire session average peaked gain more points added broader market averages were little changed standard poor 500-stock index went up dow jones equity market index dipped new york stock exchange composite index eased activity was fairly brisk opening hopes recovery last week string consecutive losses industrial average led investors market program buying related stock-index arbitrage then surfaced shortly a.m. est carried prices session highs pace slowed quickly following round arbitrage-related buying involving sale index futures contracts purchase stocks stayed sluggish rest session prices drifted people are sitting hands said bill langevin manager institutional trading morgan keegan co. memphis tenn just shares changed hands new york stock exchange compared friday last monday declining stocks led advancers big board traders attributed lackluster activity part anticipation first pieces economic data october monthly survey corporate purchasing managers due tomorrow employment report set friday also number analysts believe stocks fall vicinity lows market mid-october sell-off posting sustainable gains industrial average hit bottom level oct. oct. market has begun process trying find floor fall said william m. lefevre market strategist advest inc. hartford conn added floor prove be well recent price lows depending economic data ease concerns slower growth chevron gained big board composite trading shares continued speculation pennzoil is building stake company usa today reported unknown party possibly pennzoil acting own partner holds % % company common shares other strong performers blue-chip issues included procter gamble went up aluminum co. america primerica up also philip morris gained shares ual corp. moved up reports los angeles investor marvin davis has asked united airlines unions 're interested cooperating new bid ual pilots machinists appear interested mr. davis is barred making new bid terms agreement made ual september ual accepts offer share international business machines fell shares changed hands unisys went down shares hewlett-packard skidded digital equipment rose compaq computer added texas instruments re-entered personal computer market introducing portable models added series dividend-related trades accounted most volume southern co. big board most active issue closed down shares utility carries % dividend yield goes ex-dividend today crossland savings tumbled wake management recommendation suspend dividends concerns not meet capital requirements new federal regulations proposed criteria bar crossland including preferred stock so-called core capital american savings bank face similar problem new capital criteria dropped company had preferred stock outstanding june meanwhile savings-and-loan sector fared better other dow jones industry group h.f. ahmanson rose great western financial gained golden west financial added calfed went up battle mountain gold reported third-quarter earnings fell % year ago lost other precious-metals stocks finished mixed rallying late last week homestake mining went down newmont gold added asa ltd. slid paramount communications dropped rumors sale associates corp. unit ford motor be delayed mid-november company said sale was track close today nashua jumped taking steps ward reiss co. dutch company is seeking u.s. antitrust clearance acquire as much % common stock nashua expanded stock-repurchase program common shares about % shares outstanding toughened takeover defense unum gained company reported third-quarter earnings were % higher year earlier sharper rise analysts had expected telecom usa skidded earnings operations third quarter were year-ago level fell short analysts forecasts american stock exchange market value index fell volume totaled shares first federal bancorp lost james clarkson retired chairman president chief executive officer pontiac mich.-based bank holding company said is reviewing certain unspecified actions mr. clarkson took office philadelphia museum art perpetual motif art man ray more paintings collages drawings photographs objects films commemorate centennial artist birth philadelphia nearly one-third works pioneer dada surrealism are lent french collectors museums artist spent most life paris many other objects have been lent first time widow juliet man ray parkway 26th street jan. carnegie museum art pittsburgh impressionism selections american museums paintings pastels sculptures artists including cezanne van gogh monet renoir sisley cassatt works are drawn permanent collections carnegie forbes ave. view nov. 4-dec. minneapolis institute arts third avenue south jan. 27-march nelson-atkins museum art oak st. kansas city mo. april 21-june saint louis art museum forest park july 14-sept. toledo museum art monroe st. toledo ohio sept. 30-nov. indianapolis museum art latin haitian folk art assortment hand-carved devotional images painted tin votive objects colorful voodoo banners handmade satin sequins beads brought here latin america haiti importer alden smith west 38th st. nov. 1-dec a.i.r. gallery new york carved wood bathed glowing colors gold leaf nancy azara sculptures evoke faraway places forgotten rituals current show gathers dozen shamanistic pieces tiny towering crosby st corner spring nov. voices distant shoreline west coast-based choreographers anita addison esther aviva joannie anderson come east eclectic evening dance pieces scheduled include ms. anderson ragged claws comic look t.s. eliot love song j. alfred prufrock excerpts ms. aviva featuring work contemporary nicaraguan poet gioconda belli premiere structured group improvisation ms. addison company mulberry street theatre mulberry st. new york nov. david up company years mr. gordon has been weaving regionally inspired words music movement tapestry americana united states now completed work self-contained sections stretching evenings be seen state university new york purchase theatre b nov. prefer american pie smaller portions catch program consisting just newest segments philadelphia zellerbach theatre annenberg center nov. lawrence kan crafton-preyer theatre university kansas nov. st. louis kiel opera house dec. metropolitan opera june anderson makes long-awaited debut gilda new production verdi rigoletto luciano pavarotti partially recovered sciatica sings fun-loving duke leaving jester cap leo nucci hump-backed fool lincoln center 65th broadway new york nov. dec. dallas opera more decades world leading coloratura soprano dame joan sutherland exits smilingly american stage singing mysterious countess lehar merry widow music hall fair park nov. waverly consort opens 25th anniversary season fully staged production return ulysses homeland monteverdi trilogy also includes orfeo cast singers is lead paul rowe ulisse laura pudwell penelope laurie monahan melanto original-instrument venetian opera orchestra instrumentalists kathryn bache miller theatre broadway 116th street new york nov.