was kind snubbing rarely seen congress let alone same party sen. alan cranston trekked house side capitol hill few days ago volunteered testimony fellow democrat rep. henry gonzalez was offered expression cooperation mr. gonzalez is investigating failure lincoln savings loan association instead thanks sen. cranston was treated cool formality witness receives formal subpoena rep. gonzalez told seldom have house hearings caused so much apprehension senate california sen. cranston other senators were already writhing glare unfavorable publicity alleged looting lincoln friend political benefactor charles keating jr. principal stockholder lincoln parent company american continental corp. phoenix ariz first day house banking committee hearings last week william seidman chairman resolution trust corp. federal agency created sell sick thrifts said agency is investigating lincoln made illegal political contributions mr. keating arranged nearly donations sen. cranston various political causes hundreds thousands more other lawmakers future witnesses include former federal s&l regulator has accused senators attempting subvert regulatory process intervening behalf mr. keating many lawmakers chairman gonzalez says considers intervening regulators be improper reach point policy-making body is trying shape administrative decisions then 's no-no book texas lawmaker says has attached lincoln story tenaciously questions are answered keep going lawmakers often are reluctant embarrass colleagues even opposing political parties recent housing urban development department scandal example rep. thomas lantos california democrat led hearings tiptoed embarrassing disclosures hud grants secured sen. alfonse d'amato new york republican chairman gonzalez is genuine maverick comes same political line wright patman bank-baiting texas populist chaired banking committee mr. gonzalez is also stickler ethical standards refuses accept honorariums believes conducting official business open early political career city councilman san antonio walked meeting political supporters asked police chief be replaced denouncing closed-door affair publicly bat-roost meeting immediate target rep. gonzalez inquiry is danny wall chairman office thrift supervision principal regulator thrift industry mr. wall delayed seizing lincoln s&l more years staff told california thrift was insolvent potential losses taxpayers were growing rapidly rep. gonzalez seems primed lash mr. wall hearings resume thursday testimony federal regulators san francisco william black mike patriarca mr. wall relieved responsibility supervising lincoln mr. gonzalez expressed concern report had been summoned washington mr. wall last week discuss testimony advance think is trying improperly influence witness god 'm not going tolerate says mr. wall however is self-proclaimed child senate former staff director banking committee inquiry handling lincoln s&l inevitably drag sen. cranston others sens. dennis deconcini d. ariz. john mccain r. ariz. john glenn d. ohio donald riegle d. mich attended meeting april questioning federal audit lincoln s&l had dragged on years 'm certain course hearings names senators be brought mr. gonzalez says is raising eyebrows first got glimpse witness list n't believe were going go ahead do says michael waldman director congress watch consumer group are witnesses be forced testify meetings senators democratic aide banking committee member remarks too am astounded gonzalez has certainly placed lot democratic senators very bad position senators say merely were trying ensure fairness constituent mr. keating lives phoenix california thrift parent is ohio-chartered corporation holdings michigan chairman gonzalez expresses sympathy sen. riegle counterpart chairman senate banking committee 's wise 's good know 's honest man texan says same time mr. gonzalez has n't forgotten confrontation mr. wall house-senate negotiations s&l bailout legislation summer senate negotiators included sens. cranston riegle mr. wall principal sponsor republican sen. jake garn utah were willing trade important provisions bailout legislation preserve mr. wall job avoid reconfirmation hearing be called testify lincoln s&l most importantly senate traded bush administration controversial plan finance bailout was partly reinstated later time mr. gonzalez said several senators told get roadblocks way be understanding garn insistence wall now mr. gonzalez is holding equivalent reconfirmation hearings anyway guise lincoln investigation way 's is mr. gonzalez concedes even house banking committee members suffer fallout mr. keating raised rep. doug barnard re-election campaign georgia democrat was taking side regulators wanted curb risky investments wholesale deposit brokering recently voted present committee authorized subpoena compel mr. keating testify then changed vote chairman supporters have upper hand federal regulators press fraud suit mr. keating others rep. jim leach r. iowa says lincoln s&l affair is biggest bank heist history adds great question remains be resolved is have congressional watergate making witness set testify thursday was quoted news report weekend saying lincoln laundered campaign contributions illegally witness william crawford california chief state thrift regulator denies saying do n't know was done properly not 'm not lawyer said telephone interview yesterday said is prepared testify executives lincoln parent corporation got unusually high salaries frequent calls directing make specific contributions committee also has summoned mr. wall predecessor edwin gray has characterized senators roles tantamount attempt subvert regulatory process is n't expected back even senators have disputed account meeting senators brace sen. cranston returned capital last week one-day trip inspect earthquake damage san francisco sighed aide back keatingland