battle-tested japanese industrial managers here always buck nervous newcomers tale first countrymen visit mexico boatload warriors blown ashore years ago beginning took man extraordinary qualities succeed mexico says kimihide takimura president mitsui group kensetsu engineering inc. unit here new center japanese assembly plants just border san diego turnover is dizzying infrastructure shoddy bureaucracy intense even after-hours drag bars japanese revelers sing recorded music are prohibited mexico powerful musicians union still japanese companies including giants such sanyo industries corp. matsushita electronics components corp. sony corp. have set shop state northern baja california keeping japanese happy be most important tasks facing conservative leader ernesto ruffo takes office nov. first opposition governor mexico modern history mexico desperate need investment japan huge budget surplus seem perfect match countries remain separated cultural barrier wider ocean conservative japanese investors are put consider mexico restrictive investment regulations loose work habits mexicans viewpoint vaunted tactics methodical japanese managers do n't count much land saying says are fixed rules japan ranks only fourth largest foreign investor mexico % total investments is just % money japan has invested abroad mexican president carlos salinas de gortari like change young president so admires japanese discipline sends children japanese school mexico city already has finagled loan japanese government mexico urgently needs more help mr. salinas unpopular institutional revolutionary party pri faces congressional elections pri stand chance mr. salinas has press on economic program so far has succeeded lowering inflation providing moderate economic growth maintaining key components strategy stable exchange rate high level imports consume enormous amounts foreign exchange mr. salinas needs big investment inflows quickly problem is japanese businesses make decisions view well coming months weigh so heavily mr. salinas japanese come mexico not immediately says kazushige suzuki director-general japanese external trade organization mexico not now fruit is ripe falls tree says pressed matter is more specific be big japanese investments probably years now ryukichi imai japan ambassador mexico agrees mexico be too eager seems be presumption sectors mexico government is lot japanese money waiting gate slightly opening gate money enter mexico do n't think is case mexican officials maintain japanese reserve is only result unfamiliarity distance takes while appreciate economic stability 've achieved says economic policymaker mexico is sending number missions japan looking major breakthrough investment telecommunications petrochemicals tourism is hoped other japanese then follow leader japanese investors say reluctance invest stems not only concerns mexico economic outlook also reservations mexico recently revamped investment law unable get new law congress strong leftist bloc mexico jury-rigged existing law regulations created special 20-year trusts allow foreigners % ownership once-closed industries also made artful use semantics redefining non-strategic industries had been national domain devices do n't give sufficient certainty bosses japan says yasuo nakamura representative industrial bank japan mr. nakamura cites case customer wants build giant tourism complex baja has been trying years get mexican restrictions foreign ownership beachfront property develop beach trust instead is trying have grandson become naturalized mexican family gains direct control say best hope mexicans is catching eye japan promoting industry japanese clearly like border assembly plants known are open % foreign control do more help japanese here baja want invest elsewhere says mr. ruffo governor-elect national action party succesful businessman plant operators are heartened mr. ruffo pledge cut corruption associated ruling party officials mr. ruffo frets even bigger problem be protectionism u.s. politicians oppose consider japanese efforts use crack u.s. market back door