wall street continued buckle public outcry computer-driven program trading kidder peabody co. unit general electric co. announced stop doing stock-index arbitrage own account merrill lynch co. pulled out practice altogether new york stock exchange has been buffeted complaints angry individual investors exchange own listed companies chairman john j. phelan jr. held emergency meeting senior partners big board stock specialist firms specialists trader said were livid mr. phelan recent remarks sophisticated computer-driven trading strategies are here stay many investors blame program trading wild swings stock market including 190-point plunge dow jones industrial average oct. specialist is exchange member designated maintain fair orderly market specified stock mr. phelan meeting floor brokers comes prepares explain exchange position program trading key congressional regulators closed session tomorrow according exchange officials big board spokesman only say 're working problem looking issue meeting broad number customers constituents get views ideas issue program-trading outcry was taken new level giant contel corp. said more big board listed companies are forming unprecedented alliance complain exchange role program trading decision merrill nation largest securities firm represents biggest retreat yet program trading merrill has been fourth-biggest stock-index arbitrage trader big board year executing average shares month such trades about shares day merrill move is most sweeping program-trading pullbacks recent days big securities firm no longer execute stock-index arbitrage trades customers most wall street firms pulling back have merely stopped such trading own accounts merrill has been main firms executing index arbitrage customers merrill also said is lobbying significant regulatory controls program trading including tough margin down-payment requirements limits price moves program-driven financial futures merrill statement chairman william a. schreyer president daniel p. tully said index arbitrage has been clearly identified investing public mind contributing factor excess market volatility merrill n't execute such trades effective controls are place stock-index arbitrage traders buy sell large amounts stocks offsetting trades stock-index futures options idea is lock in profits short-term swings volatile markets last thursday painewebber group inc. also said cease index arbitrage altogether firm was n't as big index arbitrager merrill is other large firms including bear stearns co. morgan stanley co. last week announced pullback index arbitrage only firms own accounts kidder made abrupt about-face program trading yesterday special meeting firm president chief executive officer michael carpenter senior managers just week ago mr. carpenter staunchly defended index arbitrage kidder most active index-arbitrage trading firm stock exchange year index arbitrage mr. carpenter said last week does n't have negative impact market whole kidder customers were sophisticated enough know yesterday mr. carpenter said big institutional investors n't identify told n't do business firms continued do index arbitrage own accounts were following trend competitors were pressure institutions said kidder so far year has executed monthly average shares index-arbitrage trading is second only morgan stanley overall program trading includes index arbitrage most kidder program trading is own account according new york stock exchange kidder denied ge chairman chief executive john f. welch had anything do kidder decision least chief executive said called mr. welch complain kidder aggressive use program trading other market sources said understood mr. welch received many phone calls complaining kidder reliance index arbitrage major business kidder has generally been sensitive suggestions ge makes decisions kidder unit decision had nothing do pressure mr. welch received mr. carpenter said was kidder peabody stand-alone decision spokeswoman ge fairfield conn. said absolutely spoke jack welch subject added anyone claims talked jack welch is n't telling truth supporters index arbitrage have n't been publicly sticking trading strategy did post-crash outcry merrill lynch statement pulling out index arbitrage suggested current debate has missed mark merrill said continues believe causes excess market volatility are far more complex particular computer trading strategy indeed are legitimate hedging strategies used managers large portfolios such pension funds involve program trading means protecting assets pension beneficiaries merrill index arbitragers continue do other kinds computer-assisted program trading probably n't be layoffs firm people familiar merrill program operation said meanwhile bear stearns chairman chief executive alan c. greenberg said firm continue stock-index arbitrage clients firm annual meeting last night told shareholders index arbitrage n't go away public outcry think are going stop index arbitrage causing few wall street firms quit are crazy mr. greenberg said 's not going stop mr. greenberg noting stock-index arbitrage rises ebbs stock market volatility said first months firm fiscal year beginning july stock-index arbitrage had been break-even proposition bear stearns response shareholder suggestion mr. greenberg agreed european firms simply pick index-arbitrage business left u.s. institutions pressure big institutional investors has been major catalyst wall street program-trading pullback was speculation yesterday fidelity investments other large mutual-fund companies soon follow lead kemper corp. other institutions cutting trading business securities firms do program trading fidelity spokesman boston denied speculation saying program-trading issue was more regulatory problem much smaller mutual fund company usaa investment management co. unit usaa san antonio texas said informed national brokerage firms cease business stop index-arbitrage trading usaa mutual fund accounts manages more is stock market michael j.c. roth usaa executive vice president called program trading mindless said is valid investment reason stock-index futures exist program-bashing move is clearly charles wohlstetter chairman contel is helping organize alliance big board-listed firms said had time work yesterday received so many phone calls faxes letters supporting view big board has been turned gambling casino program traders are reaching moment truth wall street said rep. edward j. markey d. mass. chairman house subcommittee telecommunications finance wall street is beginning realize shakespeare said trouble is not stars craig torres anne newman contributed article recently ceased index arbitrage own accounts millions shares such trading own account