bearings inc. said chairman john r. cunin retire officer company jan. george l. lamore president chief executive officer become chairman chief executive mr. cunin retirement john c. dannemiller executive vice president chief operating officer become president chief operating officer mr. cunin years old was chief executive distributor bearings power-transmission products continue director mr. lamore 48-year veteran bearings has been president mr. dannemiller joined bearings august leaseway transportation corp. was president chief operating officer has been bearings director appointments are part planned succession company soviet leader mikhail gorbachev opened major u.s. trade exhibition moscow spent hours touring stalls representing such blue-chip companies general motors corp. international business machines corp. johnson johnson archer-daniels-midland co. stand mrs. nelson rockefeller board member offered soy burger did n't bite exhibition u.s.-u.s.s.r. trade economic council underscores growing u.s. interest nation market trade countries is minuscule soviet president prime minister nikolai ryzhkov spent longest time minutes ibm stand got souvenir computer-chip key rings gm stall barely looked gleaming cadillac preferring talk cooperation possibilities beijing meantime china opened international aviation show west embargo military deals uncertainty nation stability kept many foreign exhibitors away officials said companies countries including u.s. had displays firms more countries last show japanese air-conditioner maker daikin industries ltd. was fined yen exporting soviet union chemical solution be used missile-guidance systems daikin executive charge exports high-purity halogenated hydrocarbon was sold soviets received suspended 10-month jail sentence judge masaaki yoneyama told osaka district court daikin responsibility is heavy illegal exports lowered international trust japan sale solution concentrated form communist countries is prohibited japanese law international agreement soviet legislative panel rejected as not radical enough government proposal decentralizing economic control newspaper leninskoye zamya said committee decided plan parcel economic powers previously exercised moscow country republics does n't reflect radical changes soviet federation committee gave government nov. revise proposal move reflected growing confidence revamped supreme soviet scott paper co. said is abandoning proposed tree-farming project indonesia no longer expects use much eucalyptus pulp as previously anticipated eucalyptus plantation pulp mill have covered acres irian jaya region had been approved indonesia investment board was opposed environmentalists threat irian jaya forests potential source social unrest primitive tribes inhabit yaohan departmentstore co. japan is moving international-operations headquarters holding company hong kong gain british colony economic advantages tax structure funds hong kong dollars new company yaohan international co. plans acquire hong kong top restaurants also intends set international wholesale market singapore government may open department store bangkok shopping centers malaysia taiwan canada chicago seattle december chain currently has retail outlets japan u.s. hong kong dozen more scattered globe major european auction houses are turning increasingly specialized sales christie soon have sale dada symbolist art while sotheby is luring collectors sales swiss german spanish australian canadian paintings brussels hotel ventes horta auctioned pistols sabers along paintings jewels berlin villa grisebach auction art works pre-sale estimates less nov. auction house known sales top-drawer 19th 20th century works is providing service clients do n't want sell just fabulous oil paintings says villa grisebach vivien reuter antwerp auctioneer campo is less concerned market niches belgium crushing tax auction-fee burden everything has be same countries says campo stefan campo is asking clients sign protest petitions then be fair competition ending tax-free shopping european community threaten more jobs international duty free confederation said instead banning such shopping confederation proposed amending controls be sure privilege is n't abused british argentine diplomats opened talks madrid aimed restoring ties severed war falkland islands britain u.n. representative delegation head crispin tickell called first meeting good interesting businesslike