u.s. allies are complaining president bush is pushing conventional-arms talks too quickly creating risk negotiators make errors affect security western europe years concerns pace vienna talks are aimed destruction weapons as well major reductions realignments troops central europe also are being registered pentagon mr. bush has called agreement next september latest american defense officials believe north atlantic treaty organization take more time examine long-term implications options being considered thing pentagon officials asked not be identified worry u.s. have much tougher time persuading europeans keep short-range nuclear weapons soil soviet armored forces are thinned same time contend reduction nato forces treaty increase possibility conventional soviet attack west retains residual force nuclear weapons europe allies concerned deadline include british french smaller nato allies do n't have adequate staffs provide quick answers questions being raised generally are considered most complex arms-control talks ever attempted so far ally has complained openly preserving impression nato is line bush position quick agreement bringing soviet conventional forces down parity nato is west top bargaining priority even nato negotiators have only months left bush timetable are still wrestling such seemingly fundamental questions is tank categories weapons negotiation have n't even been defined tanks currently are defined armored vehicles weighing tons more carry large guns soviets complicated issue offering include light tanks are as light tons oleg a. grinevsky chief soviet negotiator conventional-arms talks argued mean soviets have destroy tanks u.s. lose none has light tanks europe issue is stickier seems france britain italy have light tanks like keep talks u.s. army analysts worry proposed soviet redefinition is aimed blocking u.s. developing lighter more transportable high-technology tanks defining combat aircraft is even tougher soviets insisted aircraft be brought talks then argued exempting russian planes are solely defensive nato has n't budged insistence gun-carrying plane has offensive capability dispute issue according u.s. official is potential treaty stopper only president bush soviet leader mikhail gorbachev be able resolve accounting problems raise more knotty issues greece turkey example are suspected overstating arsenals hopes emerge arms-reduction treaty large remaining forces deter other other nations are n't sure many weapons have own arsenals 's just going be sloppy side warsaw pact says nato analyst so far bush administration arms-control experts congress seem moved arguments problems take more time thrash out president bush has allowed argue bigger danger be west delay action so long soviets back away current conciliatory attitude so miss tanks somewhere asks rep. norman dicks d. wash. member house group visited talks vienna bottom line is get warsaw pact superiority brought down parity keep pressing ahead as quickly possible worry more things becoming so unraveled other side become unable negotiate