bolstered robust long-distance business telephone industry is expected post healthy profit increase third quarter analysts estimate third-quarter earnings industry increase as much % year-earlier period so cumulative earnings hit most earnings growth however come long-distance sector american telephone telegraph co. is expected post profit increase % mci communications corp. earnings are expected surge % united telecommunications inc. reported last wednesday third-quarter net income climbed % cents share revenue united telecom sprint unit posted operating profit paul aran telecommunications analyst bear stearns co. said long-distance companies have been buoyed strong growth facsimile data-service business said declining long-distance prices also have helped stimulate usage local telephone companies however are n't expected fare well growth is predicted be % % range most companies southern new england telephone gte corp. posting profit increases neighborhood % long-distance companies have kept momentum says robert morris iii telecommunications analyst goldman sachs co. pace growth local telephone companies is slowing 's especially true regional bell companies said regulation is primarily responsible bells dull earnings growth most companies have reached maximum allowed earnings ceilings are set regulators signals need regulatory change mr. morris said pacific telesis group is expected post earnings cents share obtained regulatory relief california regulators last week plan company is allowed earn more operate more efficiently year-earlier quarter pacific telesis earned cents share revenue analysts expect installations new telephone lines grow % however gte bellsouth corp. pacific telesis operate territories hearty economies are expected report new-telephone-line growth range % % nynex corp. profits begin show signs weakening effects nearly three-month strike other bell companies such ameritech southwestern bell corp. be hurt quarter one-time charges associated settlement new union contracts mr. aran bear stearns analyst said generally weeks strike starts hurting earnings 'm waiting see impact is nynex analysts predict nynex earnings be share compared share year earlier company earned sales independent telephone companies also post third-quarter results trail comparable year-ago period rochester telephone co. instance said expects third-quarter earnings be somewhat lower year-earlier quarter even company expects post extraordinary gain cents period company said higher expenses competitive pressures hampered earnings third quarter rochester telephone reported net income share revenue