call jim wright office downtown fort worth texas days receptionist still answers phone speaker wright office former congressman resigned speaker house investigation financial dealings is ensconced district office maintained taxpayers allowance is negotiating rich book contract boot hottest tickets washington social calendar fall was charity benefit honoring former congressman tony coelho landed million-dollar job wall street resigning controversial junk-bond investment last summer michael deaver former white house aide has become most recent addition teeming ranks fallen politicians officials earning way lobbyists consultants here mr. deaver has reopened public-relations business surviving scandal has become rite political passage time glut scandal has blunted town sensibility let president demand strict new ethics rules sitting house members accused sexual misdeeds unfolding hud scandal wright debacle people are slightly dulled scandal says political humorist art buchwald now takes something really weird inspire public outrage not scandal-tripped have enjoyed soft landings many have people bounce back more resiliently regular people says washington writer suzanne garment is working history post-watergate scandal given own penchant book writing is surprising none masters scandal survival have yet published guide art is emerging protocol indeed etiquette rules pretend nothing happened were still old job mr. wright resigning title instead being forced job law enjoys annual office expense allowance paid staffers up stationery telephones continued use franking privilege not mention generous federal pension is also busy schedule speaking engagements pop tony places including yale political union 's as busy was as speaker reports mr. wright administrative aide larry shannon atone edge fashionable georgetown chic office river view number corporate clients n't name mr. deaver is trying reclaim reputation one savviest image makers town are few mementos days white house deputy chief staff confidant ronald nancy reagan former million-a-year lobbyist now frequents shelters homeless devotes third time counseling other recovering alcoholics feel better ever have life says mr. deaver confessed alcoholism trial perjury charges is also recovering workaholic relaxing family creating topiary garden-shrub sculpture fashionable pursuit developed passion three-year legal ordeal sign mr. deaver renaissance appearance abc nightline show pack journalism host ted koppel introduced media master reagan administration mention mr. deaver conviction perjury charges finding god someone says 've turned god everybody lays observes frank mankiewicz old washington hand former aide robert kennedy thus have charles colson jeb magruder launched successful post-watergate careers pulpit does n't always work so smoothly allegations surfaced divorce contest had beaten wife sec enforcement chief john fedders retreated trappist monastery rural virginia is now solo law practice washington fees have been meager failed efforts win chunk ex-wife royalties tell-all book time time returns monastery prayer meditation legal work mr. fedders is philosophical travails whole experience has been opportunity internal growth says sees psychoanalyst mornings week 've surrendered circumstances mr. fedders says word surrender has precise psychoanalytic meaning universe has changed 'm enjoying life am today aspect being mega-lawyer is n't as important do n't linger best thing do is get screen says mr. buchwald nobody proved more masterfully mr. coelho former democratic majority whip declaring was life congress resigned almost immediately media reports questioned propriety junk-bond investment official investigations took hold glitterati turned bipartisan black-tie force benefit coelho epilepsy fund last month were sen. robert dole rep. newt gingrich other kingpins congress dan rather served emcee new million-dollar-a-year perch wall street managing director wertheim schroder co. mr. coelho reports many former colleagues have contacted find too pursue investment banking careers helps be male male scandal victims invariably fare better anne burford former epa chief resigned fire flap congress was kayoed confrontation even was never charged official wrondgoing worked part-time consultant wrote book never restarted high-powered legal career did n't help was charged then cleared allegations public drunkenness cut losses ran says new home colorado is busy remodeling mrs. burford remains bitter overwhelming legal expenses involved clearing name husband was instantly impoverished very act marrying says former epa official rita lavelle is still struggling conviction perjury charges 's nothing do bring back was says lawyer james bierbower say survived was n't easy book contracts have been dangled deborah gore dean reigning queen hud scandal donna rice gary hart fame failed obtain book contract lost modeling contract no excuses jeans fawn hall oliver north former secretary has yet launch hoped-for television news career according lawyer rita jenrette former wife abscam-indicted rep. john jenrette has yet hit big hollywood roles such movies zombie island massacre aunt ida bikini shop is doing lot better former husband was back jail summer shoplifting charges be star central figures such richard nixon usually fare better supporting roles richard secord retired air force general felled iran-contra scandal is ruined forced sell virginia home pull kids college according recent fund-raising appeal sent behalf yet co-defendant case also former military officer name oliver north has been busily profitably burnishing involvement affair accounts difference televised iran-contra hearings mr. north came patriot central casting mr. secord performance was decidedly less inspiring mr. north remains heavy demand speaker fees reported range even wake hurricane hugo people turned remote virginia town september family tribute mr. north given dozen conservative members congress sex is involved bets are sex scandals make people look careless silly worst sins washington is be laughed be wicked not foolish says mr. mankiewicz nevertheless rep. gerry studds massachusetts was handily re-elected candor handled revelations had sex male congressional page former rep. robert bauman maryland republican lost seat was caught soliciting sex 16-year-old boy has never regained professional footing lawyer mr. bauman conservative says was deserted right wing conservatives shoot own says political establishment is reluctant forgive sexual misadventures private sector sometimes john tower was accused womanizing boozing unsuccessful bid win confirmation secretary defense earlier year now is writing book serving elite foreign policy advisory board consulting array corporate clients including british publishing mogul robert maxwell become lobbyist else fails gucci gulch fabled halls capitol inhabited lobbyists imported shoes offers welcome environment fallen officials former rep. fernand st germain brought savings-and-loan crisis now represents guessed savings-and-loans associations become pseudo-lobbyists john mack promptly quit job last spring aide speaker wright public outrage mr. mack violent attack young woman was years old few weeks seclusion mr. mack opened consulting firm not enable directly lobby require disclose clients registering lobbyist still mr. mack says talks members congress week misery loves company other scandal survivors are sometimes best source solace raymond donovan new jersey construction executive was forced resign labor secretary indicted only be acquitted fraud charges often calls other scandal-tossed public figures offer sympathetic ear time new scandal hits says pulls scabs knees first people come deaver home troubles erupted was former nixon aide john ehrlichman mr. deaver scarcely knew reassured hurricane end mr. deaver recalls mr. bauman received encouraging letter recognized master scandal survival richard nixon says mr. bauman things get really tough always auction sotheby