ancient red-figured greek kylix drinking cup was recovered backstage sotheby spring has been returned manhattan couple lost burglary years ago robert guy associate curator princeton art museum was previewing june antiquities sale auction house recognized kylix specialist attic pottery careful reader stolen art alert ifar reports knew was stolen timing visit was fortuitous man had brought in estimate had returned collect was waiting hall confirm mr. guy identification sotheby ifar exchanged photos fax waiting man apparently innocent knowledge kylix was stolen agreed release cup had been insured short order was given chubb son representative original owners happily repaid claim took kylix home former curator museum cartoon art rye brook n.y. pleaded guilty july stealing selling original signed dated comic strips dick tracy strips chester gould prince valiant sunday cartoons hal foster dozen walt disney animation celluloids according barbara hammond museum director sold well market value raise cash pay mounting credit-card debts incurred buy presents girlfriend attorney philip russell told ifar curator 27-year-old sherman krisher greenwich conn. had worked way janitor years museum theft was discovered early year soon after ms. hammond took post sentencing was postponed aug. mr. krisher was hospitalized depression efforts get back stolen strips had resulted recovery just oct. had reason celebrate days earlier attorney met park avenue law office cartoon dealer expected sell most important stolen strips mr. russell instead new york city police seized stolen goods mr. krisher avoided jail was sentenced hours community service restitution museum authorities london heathrow airport are investigating disappearance paul gauguin watercolor young tahitian woman red pareo has sketches verso opposite side valued was part four-crate shipment air-waybill number was changed route paper work showing crates had cleared customs was misplaced was week before crates be located bonded warehouse gauguin discovered missing heathrow authorities have been watching group allegedly crooked baggage handlers time gauguin be lost chief inspector peter seacomb criminal investigation department airport said is not uncommon property be temporarily mislaid misrouted officials university virginia art museum certainly agree museum had purchased attic black-figured column krater shipped london was reported stolen transit route washington d.c. february months later greek vase arrived good condition museum charlottesville having inexplicably traveled circuitous route nairobi mexican college dropouts not professional art thieves have been arrested christmas eve burglary national museum anthropology mexico city about mayan aztec mixtec zapotec objects including mexico best-known archaeological treasures were taken government offered reward return antiquities routine police work led recovery turned carlos perches trevino ramon sardina garcia had hidden haul closet perches family home year then took art acapulco began trade cocaine information arrested drug trafficker led men recovery almost stolen art other happy news bulletins german democratic republic leipzig museum fine arts announced has recovered cemetery snow painting german romantic painter caspar david friedrich artist melancholy subjects bring high prices world market u.s. state department notified ifar theft february according source east europe desk previously convicted felons were charged tried convicted sentenced prison terms years precious canvas cut frame time theft was found nearby jena hidden upholstery easy chair home girlfriend thieves charges were brought painting is meant fool eye robert lawrence trotter kennett square pa. took fooling seriously painted style john haberle sold 19th-century original antique dealers woodbridge conn mr. trotter painting showed wall wood boards painted ribbons tacked rectangle tucked ribbons were envelopes folded faded crumpled papers currency mr. trotter fake haberle was offered bargain price phony story belonged wife late aunt new canaan conn dealers immediately showed new acquisition expert came see fake persuaded mr. trotter take back help fbi taped conversation arrest forger admitted faking selling other paintings eastern seaboard ms. lowenthal is executive director international foundation art research ifar