year is 75th anniversary federal reserve system members congress think 's time take fresh look nation central bank years there be few things are worth reexamining regional federal reserve bank setup instance be date earlier years have seemed reasonable give richmond va. bank allow los angeles only branch san francisco bank times have changed maybe whole regional system is anachronism fed is national central bank would-be reformers however want restore arrangement once had least part beginning treasury secretary comptroller currency were members federal reserve board congress was trying find someone something blame great depression decided drop secretary comptroller board carter glass former treasury secretary was then back congress probably influenced decision said was board felt had great deal power somehow did n't think was good thing times have changed rep. byron dorgan d. n.d has introduced bill congress co-sponsored rep. lee hamilton d. ind. put treasury secretary back board is doubt change accomplish much least congress be doing something far one has suggested putting comptroller back board nicholas brady incumbent treasury secretary is course aware proposal does n't like much mr. dorgen has changed tactics dropping seat-for-the-secretary idea have pleased secretary h. erich heinemann chief economist investment firm ladenburg thalmann co. suggests mr. brady figure already has power needs most treasury secretaries mr. brady takes keen interest monetary matters course was fact taking especially keen interest board matters even went treasury october market crash mr. brady private citizen headed presidential commission tried decide went wrong be done commission recommendations was single agency probably federal reserve coordinate regulation financial markets recommendation have encouraged turf-hungry bureaucrat try expand power so far federal reserve chairman alan greenspan has n't made pitch job fed has plenty responsibilities times market turmoil again appears have handled well mr. brady has said thought government agencies latest market drop were better prepared coordinate actions has left doubt still likes ideas commission advanced nearly years recent weeks moreover mr. brady has joined other administration officials trying urge fed lower interest rates urging admittedly has been gentle interview washington post early october secretary said fed be slightly more interested curbing inflation administration is administration put slightly more emphasis spurring economic growth least economists course argue inflation deserves lot emphasis earlier month st. louis fed held conference assess system first years allan meltzer carnegie-mellon university economist noted fed record included longest most sustained peacetime inflation history dating either inflation-growth argument is old mr. brady board is surely trying influence fed policy equally importantly treasury secretary has spearheaded administration effort bring u.s. dollar shopping avidly west german marks japanese yen treasury do something own have hope success needs help fed central bank has been helping apparently not especially eagerly fed has been intervening foreign currency markets all right august least appeared be sterilizing intervention other words was offsetting purchases marks yen buying dollars domestic money market now sterilized intervention have effect traders see fed is exchange market make tread little carefully fear central bank do 's generally accepted sterilized intervention has little lasting impact currency values august fed have stopped sterilizing 's hard see much impact dollar dollar is still highly volatile fed has let interest rates slip slightly main reason was dollar intervention gloomy reports manufacturing employment friday market drop only mr. greenspan associates know earlier year martin feldstein president national bureau economic research argued forcefully government wants steady stable exchange rates try steady stable economic policies trying manage exchange rates desired level said mean diverting monetary fiscal policies customary roles thereby risking excessive inflation unemployment inadequate capital formation more think more suspect mr. brady does indeed have enough power already is