years t. marshall hahn jr. has made corporate acquisitions george bush mode kind gentle question now act more hard-charging teddy roosevelt mr. hahn 62-year-old chairman chief executive officer georgia-pacific corp. is leading forest-product concern unsolicited bid great northern nekoosa corp nekoosa has given offer public cold shoulder reaction mr. hahn has n't faced earlier acquisitions were negotiated scenes far mr. hahn is trying entice nekoosa negotiating friendly surrender talking tough are prepared pursue aggressively completion transaction says takeover battle opens possibility bidding war implies competitor enters game example mr. hahn face dilemma paying premium nekoosa seeing company fall arms rival given choice associates mr. hahn industry observers say former university president has developed reputation not overpaying anything fold 's price 'm positive marshall has courage not pay says a.d. correll georgia-pacific executive vice president pulp paper says long-time associate jerry griffin vice president corporate development wtd industries inc. is n't old school winning cost also is consensus manager insiders say decision make bid nekoosa example was made only members georgia-pacific management committee signed deal even mr. hahn knew wanted go company early says mr. correll associates say mr. hahn picked careful approach management president virginia polytechnic institute assuming post age managed consensus is rule universities says warren h. strother university official is researching book mr. hahn also showed willingness take strong stand mr. hahn called state police arrest student protesters were occupying university building impressed robert b. pamplin georgia-pacific chief executive time mr. hahn had met fundraising institute mr. pamplin enticed mr. hahn joining company executive vice president charge chemicals move befuddled many georgia-pacific did n't believe university administrator make transition corporate world mr. hahn rose swiftly ranks demonstrating raw intelligence says knew possessed early son physicist mr. hahn skipped first grade reading ability was so far classmates moving rapidly school graduated phi beta kappa university kentucky age spending only years college earned doctorate nuclear physics massachusetts institute technology mr. hahn agrees has retentive memory friends say 's understatement call photographic mr. hahn also has engineered surprising turnaround georgia-pacific taking as chief executive officer inherited company was mired debt hurt recession-inspired slide building-products business mr. hahn began selling non-core businesses such oil gas chemicals even sold unit made vinyl checkbook covers same time began building pulp paper segment company while refocusing building products home repair remodeling rather materials new-home construction idea was buffet building products cycles new-home construction formula has paid so far georgia-pacific sales climbed last year compared mr. hahn took reins profit continuing operations has soared mr. hahn attributes gains philosophy concentrating company knows best record companies have diversified is n't impressive says nekoosa n't be diversification be good match mr. hahn many analysts say healthy companies high-quality assets strong cash flows resulting company be largest forest-products concern world combined sales more mr. hahn carry instance industry observers say is entering uncharted waters says kathryn mcauley analyst first manhattan co. is greatest acquisition challenge has faced