sony corp. asked los angeles court deny warner communications inc. request injunction preventing hollywood producers peter guber john peters taking management columbia pictures entertainment inc japanese concern made request los angeles superior court warner last week filed breach contract suit sony mr. guber mr. peters are currently contract produce movies exclusively warner sony has agreed pay assume debt buy columbia is also offering guber peters entertainment co. producers are co-chairmen and own combined % stake executives sides say matter still be settled papers filed court sony appear heighten acrimony hollywood most-watched legal battle sony claims injunction leave faced ominous possibility complete entertainment company acquisition be left management run company sony adds warner be grinning ear ear possibility leaving sony position opportunity prevent revitalization columbia strong competitor sony disputes warner contention offer mr. guber mr. peters violates contract warner is process being acquired new york-based time warner inc furthermore sony claims contract written oral agreements warner has denied exist allow producers take such executive posts sony legal argument even raises novel idea mr. guber mr. peters actually make movies warner serving executive posts studio sony acknowledges warner contract prevents guber-peters team being producers executive producers movies studio sony says does n't exclude taking executive post company be involved choosing movies managing not day-to-day production movies sony says columbia allow guber peters produce motion pictures warner as soon acquisition is consummated sony also says filing warner contract does n't require guber peters take affirmative steps produce motion pictures simply rewards do prohibits producing entertainment company sony says warner has already shown does n't need producers taking action prevent guber peters completing production warner properties arguments sony makes is warner let producers go columbia already allowed producers become co-chairmen publicly held barris industries inc. earlier year changed name guber peters entertainment sony also says filing mr. guber mr. peters were offered management posts columbia once before warner approved encouraged do so sworn affidavit last week warner bros. chairman robert daly denied mr. daly said mr. guber had mentioned offer responded thought idea was bad point view understand dropped idea shortly thereafter sides did rival-bashing yesterday as well sworn declaration walter yetnikoff president sony cbs records unit said warner chairman steven ross has anti-japanese anti-sony bias stuart rabinowitz warner outside counsel says sony violates american business morality secretly raiding major producers exclusive contract warner sworn declaration yesterday sony corp. america vice chairman michael schulof said was negotiating mr. guber mr. peters relied producers assurances warner had previously agreed let terminate contract n't have trouble obtaining release mr. guber meanwhile own sworn declaration yesterday maintained running studio has always been professed goal warner executives made oral agreement free producers contract opportunity arise mr. peters declaration supported mr. guber claims said is shocked assertions warner executives agreement was never made