office market weakens overbuilt northeast northeast office market is feeling serious aftereffects giddy overbuilding foreclosures other signs financial distress most often associated real estate market southwest are surfacing suburban office market once thriving northeast projects are now hands lenders including 425,000-square-foot office facility little falls n.j owners 32-acre hotel office complex king prussia pa. have advertised new financing rising office vacancy rates fairfield county conn. have builders bankers scrambling restructure loans suburban boston developers are bracing cutbacks computer industry major user office space many troubled properties have n't been foreclosed are hard identify says albert i. berger heads secaucus n.j. office helmsley-spear inc. real estate brokerage owners are voluntarily quietly turning properties lenders deeds lieu foreclosure often developers stay property manager real estate analyst lloyd lynford says northeast distress is masked relatively low vacancy rates today overbuilt market tenants have many choices are negotiating low rents squeeze building owners average mr. lynford says now takes years fill new office space compared years beverly hills comes suburban tokyo japanese cross pacific buy american real estate simply recreate home tokyu development corp. is spending build american-style luxury homes suburban tokyo rarely seen back yards front yards swimming pools tennis courts japanese company hired richardson nagy martin newport beach calif. architectural firm design japanese press has dubbed beverly hills tokyo instead japan typical small homes clustered narrow streets sidewalks new hundred hills development offer houses half-acre lots 's more times usual housing site size buyers spend select designs including mediterranean-inspired california style traditional yankee look designs inspired midwestern architect frank lloyd wright are spacious living rooms baths master grandparents suite foyer removing shoes suit japanese life styles exteriors are faced brick wood stone homes are made steel-reinforced concrete were disappointed n't use wood says architect walter j. richardson japanese only want stronger materials square foot japanese want feeling indestructibility explains not mention protection possible earthquake damage housing developers try brand-name buildings residential builders faced more competitive market are turning traditional consumer marketing technique establish brand-name identity difficulties people real estate have is product is starting new company starting new line fashion business says l. robert lieb president mountain development corp. west paterson n.j 's using river many project names never be bristol-myers does adds helps establish recognition public banks weingarten-siegel group inc. manalapan n.j. has built cross creek pointe allegro pointe other pointes new jersey caspi development corp armonk n.y. has developed apartment buildings called classic plans third developer steve caspi says same brand name indicates consistent quality regardless location design amenities leader real estate brand names is developer ara hovnanian entry-price condos are labeled society hill beacon hill is move-up town houses nob hill single-family houses standardized designs mr. hovnanian says buyer visualize society hill regardless is quake not likely jolt commercial market earthquake san francisco has sent few tremors hearts real estate investors think 's disease called buyer regret 'm sure 's running rampant moment gets cured short period time says kenneth leventhal co-managing partner kenneth leventhal co. los angeles accounting firm specializing real estate were buying building san francisco now first thing do is insist structural inspection then delay little stall little other real estate professionals accustomed california quake risks mr. leventhal anticipates little long-term change city commercial real estate market still local builders are eager tell world most san francisco does n't look tv images destruction planners urban land institute real estate conference week hastily added panel quake effects message is build right says peter bedford california developer officer urban land institute square feet space 's doing great