friday oct. p.m.-midnight edt pbs pbs air dates times vary so check local listings show boat new jersey paper mill playhouse produced faithful revival america most influential musical written jerome kern oscar hammerstein first produced broadway worth watching music has lasted better plot humor saturday oct. p.m. edt hbo repeated oct. nov. perfect witness aidan quinn brian dennehy stockard channing are excellent gripping tale reluctant witness organized crime prosecution 's set new york resonates terrible dynamics latin american drug wars sunday oct. p.m. est abc the final days doubt is something irk everyone at&t-sponsored dramatization bob woodward carl bernstein book watergate personally 'm irked combination ponderousness timidity adds utter lack drama sunday oct. p.m. est showtime repeated nov. the strange case dr. jekyll mr. hyde fans anthony andrews brideshead revisited relish watching play title role 19th-century robert louis stevenson pre-freudian drama schizoid horror monday oct. p.m. est pbs journey into sleep promise stay awake intriguing documentary science sleep wednesday nov. p.m. est pbs thomas hart benton critical opinion is divided success benton populist defiance modernist art one disagree ken burns has made fascinating film famous american painter thursday nov. p.m. est a&e repeated a.m. nov. third oak the pool hall one-acter pulitzer prize-winning playwright marsha norman is first presentation new series called american playwrights theater sponsored general motors james earl jones mario van peebles carry bitter intergenerational dialogue black men thursdays nov. p.m. est pbs taiwan the other china judy woodruff hosts handsome four-part series history economy culture politics island home chinese democracy capitalism friday nov. p.m. est pbs our town show boat great performances kicks new season lincoln center production thornton wilder best known play role small-town stage manager is given hip twist performance artist spalding gray saturday nov. p.m. est nbc breeder cup day polished hooves fancy turf fat purses horse race year sunday nov. p.m. est abc new york city marathon shiny nikes cracked cement media glory foot race year sunday nov. p.m. est tnt gary cooper american life american legend 've seen great many moviestar film portraits is outstanding sundays nov. p.m. est pbs glory enough all masterpiece theatre make compelling human story discovery insulin earthy amusing film answers resounding yes sunday monday nov. p.m. est nbc cross fire ku klux klan was revived national organization aimed catholics jews as well blacks reason downfall was murder trial d.c. stephenson indiana leader reckless career is depicted film starring mel harris thirtysomething john heard tuesday nov. p.m. est pbs hurricane has san francisco earthquake caused forget hugo remember see stunning footage taken hurricane eye edition nova