dallas cowboys are looking long-yardage situation struggling pull ahead atlanta falcons stadium box new controversial owner jerral jerry jones watches anxiously team bounds scrimmage line mr. jones takes heart there center pack is quarterback troy aikman key cowboys comeback strategy so key fact mr. jones signed april next years record rookie 's genuine wheaties-box athlete gushes mr. jones minutes left clock mr. aikman takes snap steps back fires 21-yard pass straight hands atlanta defensive back crowd groans mr. jones shakes head cowboys lose game few days sept. game mr. aikman broke finger sidelining weeks glamour professional sports mr. jones losing quarterback temporarily was just latest string setbacks has beset dallas cowboys year much national football league once fat happy cowboys now are losing games fans money last year team ended up red revenue has highest costs league attendance is % years ago very least mr. jones cultivates society circuit as eagerly bench take comfort fact days is n't alone nearly owners national football league teams are losing money result flat attendance aging stadiums more anything skyrocketing salaries star players mr. aikman last year top players nfl team took home average figure comparable baseball higher basketball first-round draft picks have done even better average salaries bonuses rose year up % 's vicious circle says art modell owner cleveland browns team pays so much other pays more just do n't have kind income stream is causing convulsions professional football owners largely complacent past are now almost desperately looking ways lower costs raise revenue embracing revolutionary ideas process not intentionally cowboys mr. jones has come represent new breed owner shortly buying % team h.r. bum bright mindful cowboys ragged bottom line 47-year-old mr. jones set own round team cuts first unceremoniously sacked tom landry legendary coach took cowboys super bowls consecutive winning seasons dallas mr. landry has standing just shy sainthood anti-jones sentiment flooded local press crude obnoxious hick said writer real said hell does think is wrote third mr. jones was just beginning quickly cut team bloated administrative staff half shut cowboys-owned dance academy july announced plans sell valley ranch team 30-acre practice camp most lavish training facility nfl mr. jones calls ranch pentagon sportdom is maze halls connects film rooms elaborate spas weight-training centers testify richer more free-spending era likes tell yarn got lost expansive ranch early visit took refuge office called front desk help said somebody come get 'm extension new day dawning sport mr. jones does n't see place sort luxury 's just not cost efficient says place costs nearly year maintain sells says cowboys move more practical read affordable grass practice field texas stadium tom landry mr. jones mind had played winning years posting losing seasons last years cowboys needed change says football has long been mr. jones passion field arkansas native started guard undefeated university arkansas team won national championship college worked father insurance company little rock led aborted attempt buy san diego chargers years later cash sale insurance company founded arkoma production corp. oil gas exploration company based little rock so was n't surprising mr. jones returned arkansas roots went looking replacement mr. landry tapped jimmy johnson teammate university arkansas squad head coach university miami led hurricanes winning seasons national championship mr. johnson talents hearts minds many dallas fans is tom landry games loss kansas city chiefs yesterday losses season new cowboys are n't doing any better old fact last time played badly was opening season average attendance games last year continues flat mr. jones is attacking problem several fronts continues reshuffle team trading famed running back herschel walker minnesota vikings month slew players future draft picks try draw more fans has dropped end-zone ticket prices general trend given rising costs league has been raise prices mr. jones is expected eventually follow suit 's simple says lamar hunt owns kansas city chiefs last year raised ticket prices average did n't increase prices be red mr. jones has also beefed marketing staff sell luxury suites topping texas stadium deal bum bright included operating rights stadium suites are air-conditioned have wet bars plush seating offer clear view field sale price depending size location mr. jones has been taking prospective suite owners field practice let rub elbows players promises actually buy rooms insider look team strategy game time sales job seems be paying off bought team only suites had been sold today have gate receipts are only cowboys second largest source cash biggest is nfl contract national television broadcast league games last year cowboys share pie came team additionally earns local radio television broadcast rights mr. jones is currently trying jack price local rights is also trying get more stations mexico cowboys have following pick games mr. jones twangy voice folksy ways belie intense businessman works 16-hour days is resigned hefty salaries pays players days calls contracts critical winning nfl has played part bidding wars signing mr. aikman sizable contract mr. jones has agreed pay rookie quarterback steve walsh next years wage inflation is bleeding nfl dry owners contend soon only large corporations be able afford buy run football teams predicts john j. veatch jr. investment banker salomon brothers handled cowboys sale tackle problem nfl owners have proposed setting rookie wage scale try rein salaries details plan go effect are sketchy player apparently be paid base salary keyed position ability bonuses be paid based playing time performance nfl players association meanwhile contends athletes are paid wage commensurate ability draw fans owners are financial trouble poor business management not players salaries owners are trying boost profit other ways too many have launched promotions attract new fans are renegotiating dated stadium contracts most owners pay % gross ticket sales leases stadiums say are either too small too old chicago example size is issue have worst lease nfl contends michael b. mccaskey president chicago bears grandson george halas founded nfl predecessor organization 're metro area millions bear fans only small number be accommodated lease expires says 's got be changed year nfl also imposed 80-player limit teams going training camp down move meant trim payroll costs league is trying get more three-year national network contract expires season current contract pays nfl owners say expect league demand % increase fact televised football games have had lackluster ratings nfl spokesman also says league probably expand offerings cable tv companies espn changes have n't come easy game professional football nfl organization is turmoil new breed team owner mr. jones included has been fighting nfl bureaucracy greater say league affairs battle has produced form organizational gridlock july nfl owners almost new blocked effort install jim finks replacement retiring league commissioner pete rozelle mr. finks is perceived owners standard-bearer old guard earlier month effort choose commissioner failed owners meet again tomorrow part jerry jones says 's business long haul work style seems support puts busy six-day weeks excluding game days recent afternoon fielded questions course hour tv producer luxury-suite marketing manager disgruntled customer roomful arkansas reporters keep schedule track flies personal secretaries little rock augment staff dallas made investment made lifetime basis explains 'm not here make money reselling team later on cowboys not be best investment now do n't accept n't be future large extent mr. jones already be getting wants team even keeps losing owning cowboys has bought glitzy life drilling oil arkansas just did n't provide is new private jet platoon assistants invitations best parties television appearances shows such prime time live few weeks ago mr. jones even entertained elizabeth taylor private suite texas stadium 're catbird seat day job says