presidential candidate george bush forthrightly expressed position abortion interview rolling stone magazine published march did think supreme court decision legalizing abortion happen think was right mr. bush said flatly few months later mr. bush became ronald reagan running mate suddenly george bush pro-choice advocate became george bush anti-abortionist vacillation did n't end there just month ago mr. bush sternly threatened veto pending welfare bill provided abortion funds save woman life then weeks ago declaring 'm not looking conflict president said consider compromise fund abortions poor women cases rape incest only days mr. bush resurrected veto threat do not support federal funding abortions mother life is threatened proclaimed finally vetoed measure last weekend so does george bush really believe answer is so murky is beginning get popular president trouble increasingly vocal increasingly powerful sides abortion issue result is mistrust criticism all around anti-abortion forces regard best uncertain ally honesty ask is man true believer do n't know says john fowler head washington-based ad hoc committee defense life inc abortion-rights forces remain bitterly critical douglas gould vice president communications planned parenthood federation america calls mr. bush position abortion-funding issue extremely cruel adding guy has n't done thing prevention 's totally geared punitive position mr. bush is plainly uncomfortable entire abortion question most past years has striven convince anti-abortion activists stalwart support position ever supreme court webster reproductive health services decision year changed political landscape abortion issue president seemingly has tried just as hard avoid saying anything more pressed wall many americans still agonize own personal feelings abortion mr. bush problem is n't so much seems be agonizing issue is seems vacillate political risk be far less president drew firm line hewed experts insist have position 're better off stick move around very much says republican strategist john sears need consistency is especially acute mr. bush mr. sears maintains lacks strong ideological base moderate republican heritage as well warnings political advisers say issue is vital younger voters president seem have least sympathy abortion-rights arguments is also firmly bound hard-line rhetoric promises made anti-abortion activists long pursuit white house many issues flag-burning instance keen political sensitivities overcome such conflicts mr. bush advisers miscalculated politics abortion issue failing grasp dramatically abortion-rights movement be aroused following last summer supreme court decision restrict rights webster case was quickest changes public attitudes 've ever seen says former reagan pollster richard wirthlin days others raise subject abortion usually loquacious president be close-mouthed almost point curtness days ago was asked amplify reasons anti-abortion stance position is well-known well-stated replied close look record last years suggests mr. bush has well-stated views sides issue u.s. representative united nations wrote introduction book world population boasted leadership term congress expanding family-planning services poor running president early was also quoted supporting federal funding abortions cases rape incest save life mother rolling stone interview mr. bush volunteered abortion-rights remarks contrast rival ronald reagan addition supporting landmark roe wade supreme court decision legalizing abortion mr. bush said opposed constitutional ban abortion mr. reagan was promising promote mr. reagan running mate though mr. bush plunged headlong anti-abortion position endorsing constitutional amendment outlawing abortion acknowledged only difference mr. reagan amendment have exceptions rape incest as well save woman life early 1980s mr. bush was quoted sometimes supporting federal funding abortion cases rape incest sometimes opposing april then-vice president bush had staff write letter spelling out support constitutional amendment banning abortions cases rape incest life endangerment opposed federal funding latter case gop convention last year again came amendment exceptions rape incest life endangerment rhetoric gathered momentum rolled office affirming firm support cause anti-abortion rally days inauguration last january again urged passage constitutional amendment outlawing abortion high court ruled webster case july president began lower volume ruling was handed down vacationing president dispatched chief staff john sununu issue statement refused answer questions did later threaten vetoes legislation restoring district columbia right use own tax money fund abortions poor women restoring funding united nations population fund months then trying drum support other issues such anti-flag-burning constitutional amendment has shied away talking abortion few comments has initiated have been oblique such urging greater efforts protection human life meeting catholic lawyers boston last month white house has likewise avoided involvement florida recent special legislative session abortion anti-abortion forces had regarded key test ability get state lawmakers toughen abortion restrictions session failed enact new curbs now see mr. bush trapped position is comfortable able escape ken ruberg head republican mainstream committee group party moderates observes administration finds ideological cul sac find difficult not impossible get