adolph coors co. announced appointment william coors president late wednesday peter coors was n't promoted least not officially announcement big golden colo. brewer was implicit statement peter coor rising role company analysts say also underscores difficult task ahead coors attempts purchase stroh brewery co. fight increasingly tough competition anheuser-busch cos latest management shuffling coors seemed focus jeffrey coors relinquish president post uncle william is elder coors has been chairman jeffrey is year older brother peter head coors technology co. small unit has run several years coors insists administrative changes n't really shift responsibilities company indeed spokesman coors said january peter has been reporting directly william rather brother change titles makes structure conform reality spokesman said william brothers brother joe jr. father joseph sr. serve company nine-member board according analysts changes reflect tough task company faces integrating operations marketing efforts stroh coors steering merger justice department continuing fight battle coors is waging anheuser miller brewing co. unit philip morris cos 's gray-beard time said tom pirko president bevmark inc. los angeles consulting firm referring move william presidency is time tremendous risk company peter has tremendous amount responsibility putting william helm probably n't increase elder coors imput beer business does n't hurt have senior statesman top said brief telephone interview yesterday peter coors said uncle is leader depend years experience knowledge industry does n't change january peter said uncle told brothers guys run units coors stressed removal jeff presidency was n't demotion allow devote full attention unit coors has continually pointed importance technology unit diversification efforts overall coors success lack thereof depends beer business said emanuel goldman analyst painewebber inc. san francisco mr. goldman credits peter coors pulling coors marketing efforts 20th century pushing intensified marketing efforts modern advertising campaigns significantly higher marketing expenditures analysts also credit peter selling other family members purchase stroh transaction cost about slap big piece debt coors books first time company history peter had major struggle getting done said mr. pirko taking debt was controversial family mr. pirko added end peter called shots yesterday interview however peter declined take individual credit moves manage team here said team establishes goals 's result 's important not 's architect driving force peter continue be gun given dominance anheuser stubbornly flat beer market past decade recent coors financial results have been frustratingly mediocre so far year coors market share has been slipping so has net income due increased costs increased price competition company said price competition is about become even more fierce anheuser announced wednesday begin discounting budweiser flagship brand analysts say put exceptionally heavy pressure coors management midst major merger peter coors however said discounting anheuser also mean coors increased marketing efforts are having impact furthermore said do n't know industry get too much tougher is just signal toughness is going continue