william seidman chairman federal deposit insurance corp. said lincoln savings loan association have been seized government contain losses estimated cost taxpayers as much mr. seidman has been nation top bank regulator inherited problems lincoln based irvine calif. regulatory role was expanded new savings-and-loan bailout law made comments house banking committee hearings investigate appears be biggest thrift disaster scandal-ridden industry inquiry also cover actions charles keating jr. is chairman american continental corp. lincoln parent contributed heavily several u.s. senators mr. seidman told committee resolution trust corp. agency created sell sick thrifts has studied lincoln examination reports former regulators dating back staff indicated had made such findings own institutions have sought immediate cease-and-desist order stop hazardous operations mr. seidman said lincoln was seized government example % loans were borrowers were buying real estate american continental other subsidiaries according mr. seidman government did n't step months thrift officials put lincoln conservatorship day american continental filed chapter bankruptcy protection creditors bankruptcy filing government has charged civil lawsuit was part pattern shift insured deposits parent company used deposits cache real-estate deals deposits have been transferred other subsidiaries are now jurisdiction bankruptcy court think 's fairly clear mr. keating knew regulators were set seize lincoln mr. seidman said further investigation said result further actions lincoln executives said mr. seidman including fraud actions mr. keating part has filed suit alleging regulators unlawfully seized thrift leonard bickwit attorney washington mr. keating declined comment hearings say be responding comprehensively several forums allegations appropriate time lincoln treatment former thrift regulators agency disbanded new law has proved embarrassing senators received thousands dollars campaign contributions mr. keating mr. seidman said yesterday example sen. dennis deconcini d. ariz. received contributions mr. keating phoned mr. seidman request push sale lincoln be seized government lawsuit was filed lincoln sen. deconcini returned campaign contributions senator spokesman said yesterday pushed sale lincoln hundreds arizona jobs lincoln were line senate banking committee chairman donald riegle d. mich has also returned contributions received mr. keating year sens. john glenn d. ohio john mccain r. ariz. alan cranston d. calif. also received substantial contributions mr. keating sought intervene behalf lincoln house banking committee chairman henry gonzalez d. texas said sen. cranston volunteered appear house committee necessary committee staff member said panel is unlikely pursue closely role senators hearing mr. seidman said rtc has already pumped lincoln liquidity also held little hope restitution purchasers american continental subordinated debt debtholders have filed suit saying believed were buying government-insured certificates deposit have plans time pay notes said