solo woodwind players have be creative want work lot repertoire audience appeal are limited oboist heinz holliger has taken hard line problem commissions splendidly interprets fearsome contemporary scores does conducting does n't have play same mozart strauss concertos over over again richard stoltzman has taken gentler more audience-friendly approach years ago collaborated new music gurus peter serkin fred sherry very countercultural chamber group tashi won audiences dreaded contemporary scores messiaen quartet end time today pixie-like clarinetist has mostly dropped missionary work touch old tashi still survives now goes road piano bass slide show repertoire ranges light classical light jazz light pop few notable exceptions just thing vivaldi-at-brunch set yuppie audience has embraced new age very own easy listening n't dismiss mr. stoltzman music motives as merely commercial lightweight believes plays plays superbly recent appearance metropolitan museum dubbed musical odyssey was case point felt more party highly polished jam session few friends classical concert clad trademark black velvet suit soft-spoken clarinetist announced new album inner voices had just been released family was front row was mother birthday so was going play favorite tune record launched saint-saens swan carnival animals favorite encore piece cellists lovely glossy tone bite then show play fast well offered second movement saint-saens sonata clarinet whimsical puckish tidbit reflected flip side stoltzman personality so went first half ingeniously chosen potpourri pieces none longer minutes none disturb challenge listener mr. stoltzman introduced colleagues bill douglas composer old buddy yale jazz bassist eddie gomez improvisational section was built pieces mr. douglas beginning golden rain lilting laid-back lead uptempo sky gave mr. stoltzman opportunity wail high register show fleet fingers bach air followed mr. stoltzman tied composer proclaiming great improviser 18th century then built image joining mr. douglas bach two-part inventions cleverly arranged clarinet bassoon mr. douglas keeping mood light then chanted chortled way murderous polyrhythms devised mr. douglas alternative hindemith dry theory-teaching techniques then mr. gomez soared improvised composer tight bebop etudes end first half however brought standing-room-only crowd seemed be waiting pop singer judy collins appears inner voices glamorous pure-voiced ever ms. collins sang joni mitchell free encounter street-corner clarinetist mr. stoltzman contributed clarinet obligatto mr. douglas lush setting gaelic blessing deep peace deep peace also featured slide show lovely predictable images clouds beaches deserts sunsets was all too mellow be believed probably have gotten away had not felt compelled add ms. collins signature tune amazing grace ask audience participation went permissible line warm fuzzy feelings was audience departed second half was ms. collins had gone way was pity mr. stolzman offered most substantial music evening just intermission steve reich new york counterpoint series reich works juxtapose live performer recorded tracks own playing mr. reich new different trains string quartet uses technique magisterially mr. stoltzman have worried audience not be able take warned advance new york counterpoint lasts minutes also unfortunately illustrated intricate jazzy tapestry mr. pearson images time geometric repeating objects kitschy mirroring musical structure was thoroughly distracting mr. reich piece mr. stoltzman elegant execution rest concert was more straight jazz mellow sounds written charlie parker ornette coleman bill douglas eddie gomez pictures douglas pieces was enjoyable hear accomplished jazz having sit smoke-filled club first half much was easy take ultimately forgettable is future chamber music managers presenters insist chamber music concerts are hard sell audiences really enjoy only music is purged threatening elements served up bite-sized morsels accompanied visuals 's next slides illustrate shostakovich quartets was not unpleasant evening certainly thanks high level performance compositional talents mr. douglas obvious sincerity mr. stoltzman chooses selections was neither deep lasting light entertainment was substitute evening brahms ms. waleson is free-lance writer based new york