is response atsushi kageyama manager journal looking real thing sony editorial page oct. agree many mr. kageyama comments believe points gun wrong direction is n't americans be criticized not understanding japanese culture japanese insist forcing culture americans japanese want accept culture refuse accept american culture japanese managers n't expect americans behave were japanese instead manage americans americans americans are expected conform japanese culture japan is wrong expecting japanese conform american norms locate here americans place native native speakers charge subsidiaries overseas european multinationals do likewise even america affiliates are usually run american managers japanese insist japanese managers everywhere set shop do japanese feel so superior not find capable american managers paul a. herbig indiana university bloomington ind mr. kageyama suggests kotobuki electronics industries workers were having difficulty understanding foreign bosses perspective mr. kageyama does excellent job explaining differences cultural philosophic question perspective suggest employees american company doing business japan conform new bosses culture philosophy obviously not thus conclusion is burden rests management culture philosophy country are operating workers be motivated company reach full potential only management embraces employees perspective a. lawton langford president municipal code corp tallahassee fla believe mr. kageyama left major aspect japanese culture permeated piece belief superiority japanese culture behavior others manager not have rebut opinions employees style management instead listen see criticism be used constructively advance objective carrying set tasks efforts subordinates japanese culture american culture is irrelevant key is manager culture motivate employees mr. kageyama argue american employees passively accept direct imposition japanese way doing things is outright cultural chauvinism first order japanese are neglecting opportunity synthesize new corporate culture based fusion best aspects national cultures mr. kageyama is accurate deny specific anti-american bias is more difficult deny general bigotry seeing things only japanese way response criticism is only better explanation policies altering reasons criticism am convinced mr. kageyama has still failed attack root cause problem is simply treating symptoms norman l. owens tempe ariz