billions investors dollars are pouring nation junk-bond mutual funds undermining pillar support already reeling junk market last week alone eye-popping flowed out junk funds nearly % total assets according estimates dalbar financial services inc. boston research firm past months nation junk funds have lost total more % assets sales transfers junk-fund shares dalbar says made estimates based data collected more dozen big junk funds interviews major fund groups fidelity investments vanguard group inc. t. rowe price associates inc. confirm trend junk funds combined have had net outflows totaling nearly % junk fund assets past months fund managers say negative publicity has exacerbated investors concern recent declines junk-bond prices people have been seeing headline headline headline saying n't take anymore 'm getting out says kurt brouwer brouwer janachowski san francisco investment adviser withdrawals spell trouble junk market heavy outflows continue fund managers face increasing pressure sell junk pay departing investors weeks ahead such selling erode prices high-yield junk bonds already weakened rash corporate credit problems mutual fund groups have n't lost control much outgoing money says louis harvey dalbar president mutual fund officials say investors have transferred most money market accounts lesser extent government-bond funds impact mutual fund industry whole probably be slight tremors are likely junk-bond market has helped finance takeover boom recent years mutual funds are largest holders junk accounting more quarter entire high-yield high-risk market mutual funds investing solely junk bonds hold assets other funds hold smattering junk bonds too fidelity high income fund has had net outflow past months streamed last week alone double level week following last month campeau corp. credit squeeze % outflow was transferred other fidelity funds says neal litvack fidelity vice president marketing most going money market funds get news item hits have strong redemptions day days following then go back normal says mr. litvack fund cash cushion more % has met redemptions having sell thing mr. litvack says adds fund has had positive net sales month last years month vanguard high yield bond portfolio has seen flow out early september seeped out friday oct. alone still two-thirds outflow has been steered other vanguard portfolios says brian mattes vice president fund now holds cash position % t. rowe price high yield fund investors yanked past months withdrawals most were transferred other t. rowe price funds followed little change fund sales picture year august last months have been whole ball game says steven norwitz vice president junk-fund holders have barely broken even year fat interest payments barely managed offset declining prices oct. high-yield funds had average % total return price change dividends fund shares according lipper analytical services inc 's even less % total return merrill lynch high-yield index fidelity junk fund has fallen % year oct. lipper says vanguard fund rose % t. rowe price fund edged up % people remain junk funds now get hit again analysts fund specialists say many funds recent weeks months have been selling highest-quality junk issues such rjr nabisco raise cash meet expected redemptions funds be forced accept lower prices expand selling securities less-creditworthy borrowers then asset values funds plunge more have so far says michael hirsch chief investment officer republic national bank manager fundtrust group new york 's time bomb just waiting go