new york mercantile exchange world chief oil futures marketplace is critical juncture several longtime observers commodities industry think fortunes merc next decade be determined large extent well new natural gas futures contract does successful new president is raising level compliance floor traders exchange commodity futures trading commission rules exchange falters moves say once again fall chief new york competitor commodity exchange friday merc board announced had approved sabine pipe line co. henry hub erath la. delivery site long-awaited natural gas futures contract also said start trading contract as soon cftc approved cftc has days respond such applications merc first started working developing contract only weeks earlier merc had turned own executives 40-year-old r. patrick thompson replace rosemary t. mcfadden president mr. thompson is believed have mandate board directors help improve merc tarnished reputation exchange floor traders do n't follow rules very well ms. mcfadden had been forced out july bitter power struggle z. lou guttman chairman longtime floor trader exchange mr. guttman told person familiar new york exchanges search replacement was looking president be responsive needs membership board mr. thompson first came exchange has been executive vice president march previously held posts senior vice president compliance senior vice president general counsel contrast comex july imported highly regarded outsider arnold f. staloff president mr. staloff was senior officer philadelphia stock exchange is considered specialist new financial products mr. thompson is n't bereft experience new products however past years said exchange research department have been working new natural gas contract seeking good delivery site studying natural gas market members are eager begin trading contract expect difficulty attracting locals natural gas pit said educational effort teaching companies natural gas industry use futures hedge have continue year added merc 's extremely successful contracts crude oil gasoline heating oil have made largest futures exchange new york third chicago board trade chicago mercantile exchange recent interview mr. thompson said biggest problem facing commodity exchanges was one image earlier year u.s. attorney indicted floor traders clerk big chicago exchanges federal authorities new york started investigating exchanges may indictments have been handed there so far have issued scores subpoenas went members new york merc mr. thompson have face consequences subpoenas recent general accounting office study merc was found have been most lax enforcing exchange rules levied smallest number suspensions traders fines largest commodity exchanges studied past years also had fewest least experienced investigators contracts traded merc received considerable criticism was discovered compliance director kevin p. conway then was responsible policing exchange busy oil metal pits was engaged other personal business activities exchange time including out-of-state trips according new york merc report prepared last year mr. conway is no longer exchange had management breakdown terms compliance mr. thompson says recognized problem took care says even natural gas contract boosts volume exchange strongly business plan calls having adequate compliance people ensure exchange rules are being followed years new york exchanges have been talking cooperating various aspects business order improve efficiency operations periodically has even been talk mergers more exchanges so far is little show such efforts mr. thompson believes case working together is stronger now ever cost competition has become extremely high says find ways save money futures commission merchants do business exchanges thinks progress cooperation be made areas vested interests have built areas is development hand-held electronic device permit floor traders enter trades make gao has recommended creation system record trade data so independent verifiable audit trail be established prevent customer fraud merc is now cooperating comex developing device provide audit trail chicago exchanges also are working device major electronics problem faces mr. thompson creation 24-hour trading system be used normal trading hours january new york merc signed letter intent chicago merc preliminary step joining electronic system called globex may chicago merc said was looking creating common system chicago board trade suspended negotiations new york merc mr. thompson says exchange is n't waiting results chicago exchanges cooperation recently began pilot program test electronic trading system called automated trading system created international commodities clearing house looking ahead commodity markets week copper michael frawley metals trader painewebber inc. new york said is good technical support pound december copper ended friday pound up cents views range buying opportunity considers market oversold think market pop level too much difficulty said said n't climb further expects remain trading range noted equity markets set tone industrial metals week traders keep eye wall street william o'neill research director elders futures inc. new york said rally occur be demand far east added talk strike settlements producing mines has been fully discounted however resume bull trend according mr. o'neill copper have close said are reports week affect prices purchasing managers report wednesday unemployment report friday precious metals friday strong price gains confirmed turnaround precious metals markets according painewebber mr. frawley most traders be looking buy pullbacks said thought moves metals last week were most influenced uncertainty equity other financial markets according mr. frawley floor traders say is good support december gold ounce area ounce december silver ounce range january platinum william o'neill research director elders futures inc. new york said price action last week is best has seen weekly basis more year said last week activity gold portend move ounce december contract also said traders keep eye stock market stock market rallies spell trouble precious metals said traders be lookout metals producers react rally expect see selling kill one have rally recent past selling locking prices production noted first time months was light investor interest metals grains soybeans prices week likely be dominated reports progress corn soybean harvest as well speculation more purchases u.s. crops soviet union recent weeks warm dry weather has sped midwest harvest is permitting farmers rebuild stockpiles were cut drought weather allowed farmers work fields weekend many midwest grain elevators probably sell futures contracts today chicago board trade order hedge weekend purchases farmers selling futures contracts elevators is helps keep downward pressure crop prices harvest traders also watch soviet union continues traditional fall buying u.s. grain so far month soviets have bought about metric tons u.s. corn be activity soybean prices week investors try get rid contract november delivery investors usually do n't want take physical delivery contract preferring instead profit price swings then end obligation take delivery make delivery nears expiration