years genie driskill went neighborhood bank was convenient high-balance customer banks pine did n't give much thought rates was receiving fees was paying august first atlanta national bank introduced crown account package designed lure customers such ms. driskill other things included checking safe deposit box credit card free plus good deal installment loans had do was put certificate deposit qualify personal line credit deserve something loyalty says took business first atlanta goes competitive world consumer banking days nearly decade banks have competed customers primarily interest rates pay deposits charge loans competitive rates were generally offset hefty fees various services many banks are turning away strict price competition instead are trying build customer loyalty bundling services packages targeting small segments population 're dead water are n't segmenting market says anne moore president synergistics research corp. bank consulting firm atlanta ncnb corp. charlotte n.c. recently introduced financial connections program aimed young adults just starting careers program not only offers pre-approved car loan throws special cash-flow statement help saving money september union planters corp. memphis tenn. launched edge account package designed thirtysomething crowd services include credit card line credit annual fees full percentage point off installment loans theory such individuals many young children are prime borrowing years and having borrowed bank continue use other services later years time banks have been aiming packages elderly demographic segment highest savings efforts are being stepped judie macdonald vice president retail sales barnett banks inc. jacksonville fla. says company now targets sub-segments market tailoring popular seniors partners program various life styles varying age geography life-style differences create numerous sub-markets ms. macdonald says says individual barnett branches add different benefits seniors partners package such athletic activities travel clubs to appeal local market interests active 55-year-old boca raton care more senior olympic games panama city care more seminar health says banks have tried packaging before wells fargo co. san francisco launched gold account included free checking credit card safe-deposit box travelers checks monthly fee concept begot slew copycats banks stopped promoting packages big reason thin margins many banks particularly smaller ones were slow computerize n't target market niches have made programs more profitable banks earnings were squeezed emphasis switched finding ways cut costs now computers are enabling more banks analyze customers age income geography are better able get segments wake deregulation began late deregulation has effectively removed restrictions banks pay deposits as well opened field new products such high-rate cds bank once offered standard passbook savings account began offering money-market accounts certificates deposit interest-bearing checking staggering rates based size deposits competition has grown more intense bigger banks such norwest corp. minneapolis chemical banking corp. new york extend market-share battles small towns nation today banker is worrying local regional money-center banks as well thrifts credit unions says ms. moore synergistics research people were n't even thinking targeting years ago are scrambling define customer base competition has cultivated much savvier consumer average household spread accounts dozen financial institutions says michael p. sullivan runs own bank consulting firm charlotte n.c much fragmentation makes attracting keeping today rate-sensitive customers costly packages encourage loyalty rewarding customers doing bulk banking place troubles banks get larger captive audience is less likely move drop rate more accounts customers have mr. sullivan says more likely are be attracted package and be loyal bank offers pay road customers especially younger ones change borrowers packaging has drawbacks additional technology personnel training promotional effort be expensive chemical bank spent more introduce chemplus line several packages aimed different segments according thomas jacob senior vice president marketing 's not easy roll something that comprehensive make pay mr. jacob says still bankers expect packaging flourish primarily more customers are demanding financial services be tailored needs days banking customers walk door expecting have package especially ms. moore says banks are already moving direction according alvin t. sale marketing director first union corp. charlotte first union says now has packages customer groups soon split says mr. sale think more banks are starting realize have be more department store not boutique iras