terms sheer brutality somali regime siad barre rank no. world only reason somalia remains obscurity is numbers sparsely populated wasteland people spread out expanse nearly size texas barre dictatorship simply is limited amount people torture kill beheading small children stabbing elderly people death raping shooting women burying people alive are just few grisly activities somali armed forces have been engaged past years somalis have escaped relative safety marxist ethiopia behavior president barre troops port berbera example hundreds men rival issak clan were rounded up may imprisoned then taken out night groups men be executed judicial process whatsoever guns were never used man was stabbed death large knife horrific details are only now emerging painstakingly documented report based hundreds interviews randomly selected refugees study was done robert gersony consultant u.s. state department has years experience investigating human-rights abuses sides left-right ideological divide gives events particular significance however is fact are part wider drama affecting strategic positions u.s. soviet union horn africa not late 1970s has horn been so grabs has suddenly become just past few weeks mr. barre rule is crumbling fast mutinies wrack armed forces really just armed gang control less country inflation is record levels desperate has called libyans help fight rebels somali national movement north is only several groups picking away regime capital mogadishu years old self-declared scientific socialist president barre has power base composed only minority mareham clan according observers is narrowing u.s. interest somalia consists single runway port berbera u.s. military aircraft have right use surveillance gulf aden indian ocean strip concrete is backed up few one-story air-conditioned shacks handful american nationals buttressed imported food cold soft drinks back issues sports illustrated maintain radio contact outside world past years desert has become land mass executions utter anarchy due mr. barre brutality ineptitude nobody is any longer control as long rival soviet-backed regime mengistu haile mariam held total gridlock neighboring ethiopia u.s. was forced accept lonely berbera runway distant no. soviets array airfields door due dramatic events battlefield past few days weeks soviet bases soon be as endangered as lonely american runway sept. wrote pages killing capturing ethiopian soldiers eritrean tigrean guerrillas recently wollo province center ethiopia tigrean forces have killed wounded captured additional government troops think numbers mean considering headline space devoted hundreds deaths lebanon small country little strategic importance tigrean armies are now miles north addis ababa threatening town dese cut mr. mengistu capital port assab fuel other supplies reach addis ababa result mr. mengistu has been forced transfer thousands troops eritrea just hold town thereby risking loss even more territory eritrea only keep tigreans bay mr. mengistu is increasingly weak position army is tied down defending northern city asmara eritreans weaker gets more turns u.s. help tigreans are communists eritreans are most anti-soviet guerrillas world having suffered more decade aerial bombardment soviet-supplied mengistu air force means shorthand is soviet dominance ethiopia is collapsing as fast president barre regime somalia is u.s. therefore has historic opportunity strike blow human rights somalia undo superpower flip-flop late 1970s horn africa back somalia state department credit has already begun distancing mr. barre evinced decision publish gersony report press has ignored 's more u.s. has suspended military aid economic aid is not enough u.s. is still perceived be tied mr. barre goes runway go too considering tenuous security runway is anyway better option morally strategically be bush administration blast regime publicly terms clear enough influential somalis understand is certainty mr. barre days are numbered u.s. take care however own position country does not go down nobody is sure come next somalia successor be expert tells is have work pretty damn hard be worse barre state department positions post-barre period somalia continue back former president carter well-intentioned role mediator mr. mengistu eritrean guerrillas ethiopia concomitantly opening channels communications tigrean rebels neighboring sudan ethiopian politics are most sophisticated secretive byzantine black africa remember took mr. mengistu many months became known creeping coup topple emperor haile selassie is simply way engineer succession covertly is sometimes possible elsewhere continent u.s. has great advantage soviets are universally loathed ethiopia did country past decade famine 's not just eastern europe march events is finally u.s. side horn africa as well only u.s. liability region is remains link mr. barre be cut fast mr. kaplan author surrender starve wars famine westview press lives lisbon