years federal rules have barred major television networks sharing most lucrative fastest-growing parts television business years nbc abc cbs have negotiated hollywood studios futile attempt change foreign companies snapping u.s. movie studios networks are pressing fight harder ever hope foreign deals divide hollywood opposition prod congress push ending federal rules prohibit networks grabbing piece rerun sales owning part shows put air even network executives however admit privately victory congress talks studios is highly doubtful time soon networks also are pushing new ways sidestep fin-syn provisions known formally financial interest syndication rules became clear last week disclosure national broadcasting co. backed deep pockets parent general electric co. had tried help fund qintex australia ltd. now-scuttled bid communications co nbc interest revive deal killed last week australian concern had trouble raising cash even deal is n't revived nbc hopes find doors are open nbc spokesman says nbc yet find way take passive minority interest program-maker violating rules nbc effort prompt cbs inc. abc parent capital inc. look ways skirting fin-syn regulations networks push only aggravate increasingly bitter rift hollywood studios sides are sit next month yet meeting agree reducing fin-syn restraints few people privy talks expect studios budge networks still are uninhibited authority shows get air charges motion picture association president jack valenti most vociferous opponent rescinding rules studios are powerless get shows prime-time lineups keep there long enough go lucrative rerun sales contends 's rules most part stay place says studio executives talks including officials paramount communications inc. fries entertainment inc. warner communications inc. mca inc. declined be interviewed mr. valenti represents studios asserts whole production industry man is side preserving rules such proclamations leave network officials more doubtful studios bend do n't seem have incentive negotiate says network executive 's indication washington is prepared address rules 's problem is n't indeed is congress has said repeatedly wants part mess urging studios networks license rights air shows made studios work own compromise recent developments have made networks nbc president robert wright particular ever more adamant networks be unshackled survive latest provocation sony corp. plan acquire columbia pictures entertainment inc. buy independent producer guber peters entertainment co. wonder walter cronkite think broadcast system trinitron evening news dan rather broadcast exclusively tokyo wrote j.b. holston nbc vice president commentary last week issue broadcasting magazine article mr. holston was europe last week unavailable complained archaic restraints fin-syn rules have contributed directly acquisition studios non-u.s. enterprises did n't mention nbc meantime was hoping assist australia qintex buying nbc spokesman counters mr. holston lament was entirely consistent nbc plans u.s. rules limit nbc involvement qintex deal so severely be light years away type unrestrained deals available sony everyone else networks big drumbeat deregulation began intensifying summer former time inc. went ahead plans acquire warner time already had long-term contract buy movies warner merger let time largely unregulated pay-cable channel home box office own warner movies aired hbo vertical integration is effectively blocked fin-syn regulations nbc mr. wright led way decrying networks inability match time-warner combination spoke again sony bid columbia was announced nbc interest qintex bid was disclosed mr. wright has n't been available comment qintex deal nbc move uncharted territory possibly raising hackles studios washington 's never really been tested says william lilley iii top cbs executive spent years lobbying have rules lifted now runs policy communications washington consulting media companies fin-syn rules do n't explicitly block network buying passive small stake company profits rerun syndication networks n't enjoy hence nbc be able take say % stake company such transaction raised objections studio syndication operations be spun separate firm network does n't have direct stake such convolutions still block networks grabbing big chunk riches syndication current rules even network fares well 100%-owned series abc example made killing broadcasting popular moonlighting is n't allowed share continuing proceeds reruns are sold local stations instead abc have sell rights one-time fee networks admit chances getting relief want are slim several years least years were tantalizingly close reagan-era federal communications commission had ruled favor killing most rules various evidence including brookings institution study series networks had aired had partly owned showed networks did n't wield undue control studios had been alleged just days rules were die former president ronald reagan one-time actor intervened behalf hollywood fcc effort collapsed networks studios have bickered ever network officials involved studio talks hope foreign influx builds more support washington seems unlikely congress issue falters 's money not program quality hollywood has lots clout given fund raising senators representatives overseeing issue spokesman rep. edward j. markey d-mass. heads subcommittee oversees fcc says mr. markey feels world has been forever changed sony-columbia deal said mr. markey hopes pushes networks studios work own fcc meanwhile new chairman alfred c. sikes has said wants sides hammer own plan