federal drug regulators concerned british reports diabetics have died shifting animal human-based insulin say are considering study see similar deaths have occurred here united kingdom reports came dr. patrick toseland head clinical chemistry guy hospital london telephone interview friday dr. toseland said number sudden unexplained deaths diabetics had seen year was compared just least deaths occurred relatively young diabetics had switched animal human insulin past year said dr. solomon sobel director metabolism endrocrine drug products u.s. food drug administration said fda officials have discussed dr. toseland findings fairly intensively have been reports similar sudden unexplained deaths diabetics u.s. dr. sobel said fda plans examine dr. toseland evidence is considering own study here dr. toseland toxicologist said was preparing article british forensic medical journal raising possibility deaths have occurred human insulin blunted critical warning signs indicating hypoglycemia low blood sugar kill diabetics usual warning signs hypoglycemia include sweating anxiety cramps proper warning diabetics easily raise blood sugar safe levels eating sugar sugary food anecdotal data certainly shows people were not aware rapid onset hypoglycemia dr. toseland said u.s. national institutes health dr. robert e. silverman chief diabetes program branch said evidence unexpected deaths hypoglycemia had shown study diabetics has been way nih years however said officials conducting study had n't been looking signs problems related hypoglycemia unawareness are now monitoring much more closely said do know are slight differences way human animal insulins drive blood sugar dr. sobel said human-based drug starts blood sugar dropping sooner drives faster said do n't believe is enough difference be clinically significant dr. sobel said reports dr. toseland findings british press have triggered widespread concern diabetics there british diabetic association committee safety medicines britain equivalent u.s. fda recently issued statements noting lack hard scientific evidence support dr. toseland findings friday american diabetes association issued similar statement urging u.s. diabetics not overreact british report loss warning symptoms hypoglycemia is complex problem is very unlikely be due simply type insulin used american association said fda already requires drug manufacturers include warnings insulin products symptoms hypoglycemia are less pronounced human insulin animal-based products eli lilly co. indianapolis-based drug manufacturer dominates u.s. human insulin market product known humulin lilly is building plants make insulin indianapolis fagershein france latest annual report lilly said humulin sales have shown excellent growth lilly officials said had seen reports hypoglycemic unawareness patients making shift animal human insulin did n't know problem had caused deaths dr. leigh thompson lilly group vice president said company clinical trials animal human-based insulins indicated difference level hypoglycemia users product dr. toseland said most british diabetics died had been taking human-based insulin made danish manufacturer none diabetics were using lilly insulin