following were yesterday offerings pricings u.s. non-u.s. capital markets terms syndicate manager compiled dow jones capital markets report new york city general obligation bonds fiscal series c d including tax-exempt bonds taxable bonds tentatively priced goldman sachs co. group yields tax-exempt bonds range % % yields taxable bonds range % % bonds are all rated single-a moody investors service inc underwriters expect single-a-minus rating standard poor corp. has issue review collateralized mortgage securities corp. remic mortgage securities offered classes first boston corp offering series is company established first boston issuing remics other derivative mortgage securities is backed government national mortgage association % securities weighted average remaining term maturity years being offered market prices beneficial corp. securities backed home-equity loans merrill lynch capital markets offering expected average life years float monthly basis points rate index 30-day double-a-rated commercial paper now yields about % issue has expected final maturity date offering is rated triple-a moody s&p based quality underlying home equity loans letter credit covering % deal union bank switzerland offering is being made bci home equity loan asset-backed certificates series 1989-1 rochester community savings bank % certificates backed automobile loans priced yield % first boston corp issue rcsb 1989-a grantor trust was priced yield spread basis points above treasury % note due july offering has expected average life years final maturity date may issue is rated triple-a moody based quality underlying auto loans letter credit covering % deal credit suisse south australian government finance authority agency australian dollars zero-coupon eurobonds due dec. priced yield % fees hambros bank ltd guaranteed south australian treasury fees government insurance office new south wales agency % eurobonds due dec. priced yield fees westpac banking corp fees swedish export credit corp sweden swiss francs % privately placed notes due sept. priced yield % citicorp investment bank switzerland call sept. declining point year par fees