helen boehm owns art porcelain company sipped luncheon cocktail reeled names few pals prince charles princess diana sarah ferguson john kluge milton petrie then flashing diamond ring as big ritz my day diamond darling told companions is board vatican museum rome turns board has lot important members including winton blount former postmaster general u.s. mrs. henry gaisman widow inventor auto-strop razor vincent murphy investment banker merrill lynch co mrs. boehm did n't mention helen boehm has way names says james revson gossip columnist newsday son joseph revson founder revlon are droppable are not fall social season well way name-droppers are out force trying impress betters sometimes put lessers truth is almost everyone real-estate agents city fathers name-drops surprising number people have ancient uncle claims lived next door cartoonist did katzenjammer kids case have forgotten name was rudolph dirks name-dropping is pervasive getting more so society becomes more complex alienating says herbert freudenberger new york psychoanalyst high-powered clientele be avenue entrance certain sector society provides people needed sense affiliation help open conversation someone do n't know long island matron theater district other day swore stranger once met liza minnelli was having drink sardi all sudden saw woman backside coming steps second floor was wearing sequined slacks knew was someone important followed ladies room sure enough was liza said said imagine liza said people drop names call irresistible impulse n't help talking big important people know even do n't really know says dr. freudenberger beauregard houston-montgomery new york writer changed name william stretch is inveterate name-dropper do innately pathologically occasionally get trouble 's also gotten access parties society says name-dropping recently helped mr. houston-montgomery crash party fame magazine threw people mentioned diaries late andy warhol guess have asked beauregard leave drops so many good names decided let stay says steven greenberg publisher fame warhol was ultimate namedropper dropping day diaries beauregard was mentioned twice very briefly passing mr. houston-montgomery says party waved malcolm forbes publisher forbes magazine we've been columns together mary boone new york art dealer think knows 'm not sure bridget fonda actress she knows 're not really best friends mr. revson gossip columnist says are people actually plan names are going drop attending party droppers do n't flaunt only friendships trumps brooke astor georgette mosbacher even drop semi-obscure names wolfgang flottl everybody days apparently has heard one really knows says mr. revson 's one-upsmanship name-dropping counts name-dropping has other benefits often civic name civic pride desire nullify negative image city promoters seek link municipality most recognizable names city has offer take cleveland has gotten bad rep once heavily polluted cuyahoga river caught fire former mayor ralph perk set hair fire acetylene torch proposed rock roll hall fame was recently refused urban-development grant people call the mistake the lake lake erie is helps point many important people came cleveland way top says george miller executive director new cleveland campaign nonprofit organization devoted citing city strengths mr. miller notes actor paul newman family owned sporting-goods store cleveland late actress margaret hamilton played bad witch wizard oz once ran nursery school cleveland comedian bob hope father stonemason once worked church next severence hall cleveland main concert hall power names do n't hurt city reputation mr. miller says hollywood average family gain cachet moving home vacated famous near famous even just sold three-bedroom house van nuys were able keep price firm weak real-estate market noting original lone ranger lived says david rambo sales associate jon douglas co. los angeles real-estate agency most people n't even remember name is john hart mr. rambo says 3.2-acre property overlooking san fernando valley is priced late actor erroll flynn once lived there flynn had n't lived property have been priced lower says mr. rambo noting flynn house has been bulldozed only swimming pool remains press agents public-relations practitioners are notorious name-droppers even do malice aforethought len kessler financial publicist new york sometimes uses get attention journalists try avoid says dan dorfman financial columnist usa today has n't returned phone calls leaves messages mr. dorfman office saying has important story donald trump meshulam riklis marvin davis admits has story occasions does get return calls makes feel better times 's given brushoff mr. kessler says are course obvious dangers blatant unsubstantiated name-dropping jeffry thal publicity agent lantz office los angeles warns dropping wrong name labels dropper fake fraud get caught 're dead water says mr. thal mr. thal says elizabeth taylor client hates being called liz directors producers phone say know liz know 've never met prefers elizabeth new york society pat buckley very social wife author william buckley has nicknames mrs. buckles patsy husband sometimes calls ducky call patty 's sure giveaway 're not circle does n't use name says joan kron editor-in-chief avenue magazine monthly publication sent right names john spencer churchill nephew late sir winston churchill former prime minister great britain is n't that impressed most name-droppers meets 's only drop mere names says mr. churchill currently writing memoirs mr. churchill artist tells tycoons such late jean paul getty oil billionnaire were fact known only initial last 're club ask 've spoken g now know mean know mean one else does now 's name-dropping know mean