britain blue arrow plc intends change name manpower plc write chunk nearly good will realized takeover u.s.-based manpower inc blue arrow chairman mitchell fromstein said interview steps be prelude reincorporating world biggest employment-services group u.s mr. fromstein disclosed planned steps expected few months blue arrow posted % drop third-quarter pretax earnings name change good will write-off help solidify blue arrow dominance u.s. temporary-help market give more american image u.s. investors turn jittery foreign stocks friday market plunge u.s. holders now own more % blue arrow compared % last january u.s. market recognition manpower name is infinitely stronger blue arrow mr. fromstein said moves also erase shareholders perception blue arrow company turmoil further reinforces concept blue arrow is thing past said doug arthur analyst kidder peabody co. new york proposed changes make lot sense added widely publicized boardroom coup mr. fromstein ousted antony berry blue arrow chief executive january month mr. berry had forced mr. fromstein out million-a-year chief milwaukee-based manpower mr. fromstein solidified control april taking mr. berry chairman blue arrow tumult is n't over yet british government is investigating disputed loan mr. fromstein has said was made mr. berry direction blue arrow was able pull takeover manpower largely different british american accounting standards produce higher reported earnings british companies british rules blue arrow was able write once good will arising purchase u.s.-based company blue arrow have amortize good will as many years creating continuing drag reported earnings good will is excess cost acquired firm operating unit assets current fair market value assets so many shares now held u.s. blue arrow reports earnings ways based u.k. u.s. accounting standards balance sheets look came alice wonderland mr. fromstein said british version shows handful pounds net worth following write-off good will american version reflects net worth almost none good will has been written mr. fromstein said hopes eradicate good will left blue arrow u.s. books fell swoop n't specify much people close blue arrow suggested write-down represent sizable chunk executives claiming prior management overstated extent manpower good will move return manpower name bolster company prospects possibly difficult times temporary help number u.s. temporary workers fell about % months ending aug. sliding nearly % july said kidder peabody mr. arthur blue arrow blamed pretax profit drop quarter ended july partly slower earnings growth non-manpower units britain overall pretax profit slid quarter year earlier