k mart corp. agreed acquire pace membership warehouse inc. share move expand presence rapidly growing warehouse-club business proposed merger comes k mart profit is declining sales core discount stores are rising more slowly such competitors wal-mart stores inc k mart based troy mich. recently said net income fall third consecutive quarter % drop first half current fiscal year membership warehouse-club concept has great potential company chairman joseph e. antonini said statement warehouse clubs typically carry general merchandise food products sell close wholesale prices no-frills stores shoppers operate small businesses pay annual membership fees provide income base stores k mart tested warehouse-club sector last year acquisition % interest makro inc makro chain operates joint venture k mart shv holdings n.v. netherlands has only stores annual sales analyst estimated six-year-old pace based aurora colo. operates warehouse-club stores company had losses several years turning profitable fiscal year ended jan. pace rang profit cents share tax-loss carry-forward sales analysts expect results continue improve company turned corner fairly recently profitability said margo mcglade painewebber inc. had been forecasting % jump pace net income operations year % increase next year warehouse productivity is really beginning take off analysts contend k mart has agreed pay too much pace even look turnaround situation 's expensive said wayne hood prudential-bache securities inc opinion only pay kind price were getting premier player industry ms. mcglade painewebber raised more fundamental question deal k mart n't get act together discounting is spending time worrying other growing markets said say k mart number job is address market-share loss discount stores longer-term lead improved profit margins point perhaps diversification be appropriate k mart mr. antonini is intent pushing company new retail businesses instance k mart is opening big food general merchandise stores called hypermarkets warehouse-type stores specializing office products sporting goods also operates waldenbooks pay less drug stores builders square home improvement stores composite trading new york stock exchange k mart closed yesterday share up cents pace rose close share national over-the-counter trading k mart spokesman said acquisition be financed short-term borrowings terms agreement k mart subsidiary soon make tender offer pace shares conditions offer is pace shareholders tender majority company shares outstanding companies said pace ill continue operate present management