maj. moises giroldi leader abortive coup panama was buried body bore several gunshot wounds cracked skull broken legs ribs were signature adversary panamanian leader manuel antonio noriega rebel officer slow painful death headquarters panama battalion-2000 squad was personally supervised gen. noriega says u.s. official access intelligence reports leaping rages sinking bouts drunkenness mistrust mr. noriega has put death troops involved coup according u.s. officials monitoring crematoriums funeral parlors panama city is now changing place sleeps night sometimes more once night meals are most often prepared women trusts full-time mistress vicky amado mother norma is collecting names telephoned coup-makers congratulate brief time control headquarters more enemies be dealt weeks rebellion u.s. hesitantly backed mr. noriega has been most brutal efficient maintaining power yet failed coup is major u.s. foreign policy embarrassment is merely latest chapter byzantine relationship mr. noriega washington stretches back decades america war dictator past years following indictment drug charges february is legacy relationship american foreign policy set destroy noriega helped create crucible panama long history conspirators pirates most past years marriage was convenience example mr. noriega was cadet elite military academy peru spy-in-training u.s. defense intelligence agency was detained lima authorities allegedly raping savagely beating prostitute according u.s. embassy cable period woman had nearly died u.s. intelligence rather rein cut loose new spy merely filed report away mr. noriega tips emerging leftists school were deemed more important u.s. interests point u.s. make practice overlooking panamanian misadventures u.s. has befriended later turned many dictators none quite so resourceful 55-year-old mr. noriega is n't as smooth shah iran as well-born nicaragua anastasio somoza as imperial ferdinand marcos philippines as bloody haiti baby doc duvalier has proved more resilient necessity u.s. make mistakes still hope remove power single error part cost life u.s. underestimated noriega says ambler moss former ambassador panama has mastered art survival keeping america long history propping mr. noriega recent u.s. actions have extended rather shortened survival mr. noriega have fallen own weight panama dire economic situation says mr. moss increasing external pressure has only given additional excuses repression scapegoat own mismanagement u.s. had sat back done nothing not have made mr. moss contends perhaps most important mr. noriega allies have intervened encourage cases demand dictator maintain grip throne colombian drug boss hearing gen. noriega was negotiating u.s. abandon command comfortable exile sent hand-sized mahogany coffin engraved name is cornered says rev. fernando guardia has led catholic church opposition noriega americans have left way is easy fight do n't have other option chief advantage fight intimate knowledge american ways weaknesses mr. noriega often tells friends patience is best weapon gringos have short attention span little stomach lasting confrontation u.s. discovered young tony noriega late was second year chorrillos military academy lima according former u.s. intelligence officials contact occurred mr. noriega half-brother panamanian diplomat based peru named luis carlos noriega hurtado luis carlos knowing helping americans advance career panamanian officer relayed tony reports leftist tendencies observed fellow students more important officers instructors spy was born was heady experience pockmarked slightly built mr. noriega was known friends cara pina pineapple face born illegitimate son father maid was raised mean streets central market district panama city tony was years older most fellow cadets gained admission academy brother had falsified birth certificate considered intellectually superior peruvian peers were wayward sons sent well-off families highly disciplined french-modeled academy sort reform school peaked military cap neatly pressed french-made uniform noriega felt more respected powerful ever underprivileged life friends period say had elegant uniform gold buttons country was cult militarism officers were elite special privileges recalls darien ayala fellow student peru lifelong friend mr. noriega relationship american intelligence agencies became contractual intelligence officials say commanding officer chiriqui province garrison major omar torrijos gave intriguing assignment mr. noriega organize province first intelligence service spy network serve clients panamanian government monitoring political opponents region u.s. tracking growing communist influence unions organized united fruit co. banana plantations bocas del toros puerto armuelles united fruit was largest contributors panama national income satisfying interests was priority panamanian leader mr. noriega initial retainer was only month occasional gifts liquor groceries american px former intelligence official says was modest pay american standards healthy boost small military salary fellow officers remember having been monthly did very well recalls boris martinez former panamanian colonel managed mr. noriega operation started building files helped gain power national guard job assumed capt. noriega chief transit police david city capital chiriqui province was tailor-made aspiring super-spy pressuring taxi bus drivers needed licenses gained ready cache information knew local luminaries had been caught driving drunk had been found mistresses proved particularly valuable panamanian government union leaders were planning may day march government feared turn violent mr. noriega had learned local union leader was sleeping wife deputy splashed information handbills distributed banana-exporting city puerto armuelles was ruled united fruit co campaign so divided union leaders government found far easier control was play broadway recalls mr. martinez noriega managed whole thing was superb noriega was expert bribing blackmailing people years chiriqui however mr. noriega also revealed officer as perverse was ingenious rodrigo miranda local lawyer human-rights monitor recalls intoxicated noriega visiting prisoners cells 5th zone garrison headquarters david had offices mr. noriega order take clothes run courtyard naked laughing then retreating office people started wondering something was wrong mr. miranda recalls period so far u.s. military was concerned mr. noriega was model recruit signed intelligence counter-intelligence training american officers fort gulick panama july according copy resume details mr. noriega has classified secret flew fort bragg n.c. september year course psychological operations returning school americas panama two-month course called military intelligence officers american officers interpreted eagerness studiousness sign loyalty did so falsely rose chief intelligence panama socalled g-2 providing populist dictator torrijos critical support defeat coup attempt year earlier became gen. torrijos inseparable shadow holder panama secrets mr. noriega now lieutenant colonel expanded contacts include cubans not mention israelis taiwanese other intelligence service came knocking u.s. diplomats complained cia col. noriega moonlighting intelligence experts always insisted allegiance was first americans early state department took calling rent-a-colonel tribute ability simultaneously milk antagonistic intelligence services cuba united states recalls francis j. mcneil deputy assistant secretary state inter-american affairs first ran reports mr. noriega wondered intelligence people put so much stock information was just as close cubans even early stage drugs caused additional concerns nixon administration drug enforcement administration became dismayed extent g-2 connections arrested drug traffickers dea agent drew list options dealing col. noriega was assassination head dea time john ingersoll scotched assassination plan did fly panama scold dictator torrijos drug ties panamanian officials including mr. noriega mr. ingersoll later recalled gen. torrijos seemed afraid act concerns u.s everybody was afraid mr. ingersoll says mr. noriega became even greater threat u.s. intelligence services discovered had been buying recordings electronically monitored conversations sergeants working u.s. army 470th military intelligence group tapes included wiretaps gen. torrijos own phone according american intelligence officials caught hands cookie jar says former cia director stansfield turner first time u.s. considered cutting mr. noriega intelligence payroll deliberations were intense mr. turner says world intelligence want get information get seedy characters question is much get tied seedy characters extort intelligence officials day worry mr. noriega sold sensitive information recordings cubans others mr. turner was troubled enough cancel u.s. contract rent-a-colonel beginning carter administration u.s. soon found new cause concern gun-running prosecutors southern florida indicted panamanians charges illegally running arms sandinista rebels trying overthrow nicaraguan government mr. somoza included mr. noriega closest friends business partners carlos wittgreen investigators were quickly closing mr. noriega time though u.s. was once again flirting longtime latin american spy mr. noriega made plans fly washington meeting counterpart pentagon dade county federal authorities learning intended fly miami made plans arrest gun-running charges as soon hit u.s. soil was friday june pentagon foiled plan according military officers time word was passed mr. noriega american hosts police be waiting monday u.s. officials received routine unclassified message military group commander panama due health reasons lt. col. noriega has elected postpone visit washington read prosecutors miami received yet setback original indictment mr. wittgreen friend mr. noriega other was dismissed technicality now reindicting mr. noriega pal intended charge mr. noriega allegations was involved illegal trading arms january jerome sanford assistant u.s. attorney was summoned meeting federal bureau investigation agent assigned bureau alcohol tobacco firearms miami panamanian dictator torrijos was told had granted shah iran asylum panama favor washington mr. sanford was told mr. noriega friend mr. wittgreen be handling shah security n't be good idea indict much less mr. noriega prosecutor was told prodding mr. sanford u.s. attorney jack eskenazi pleaded justice department officials washington let indictment proceed unfortunately mr. eskenazi wrote letter law enforcement miami find frequently attempting enforce laws united states simultaneously being caught foreign policy considerations have control letter detailed prosecution memo sat desks justice officials months case died quiet death think had been allowed go ahead then n't have problems have now mr. sanford says had been found guilty have stopped august mr. noriega took general de-facto dictator panama having maneuvered way top only years mysterious death plane crash old boss omar torrijos soon military became veritable mafia controlling legal illegal businesses reagan administration also put mr. noriega g-2 back u.s. payroll payments averaged nearly year u.s. defense intelligence agency cia working u.s. intelligence mr. noriega was hardly helping u.s. exclusively reagan years expanded business intelligence contacts cubans sandinistas allegedly entered panama first formal business arrangement colombian drug bosses according floyd carlton pilot once worked mr. noriega testified u.s. grand jury miami ultimately indict panamanian drug charges mr. noriega was convinced reagan white house n't act recalls close ally jose blandon had insurance policy involvement contra rebels nicaragua mr. blandon says general allowed contras set secret training center panama mr. noriega also conveyed intelligence spy operation nicaraguan capital managua least occasion spring helped arrange sabotage attack sandinista arsenal nicaragua help contra cause was limited was enough win important protectors reagan administration says sen. patrick leahy vermont democrat then served senate intelligence committee noriega played u.s. intelligence agencies u.s. government violin says incident suggested additional means mr. noriega have maintained such influence washington compromising u.s. officials curtin windsor then ambassador costa rica recalls being invited panama mr. noriega brother luis carlos weekend deep sea fishing quiet serious conversation aswara peninsula mr. windsor notified everett e. briggs u.s. ambassador panama invitation briggs screamed mr. windsor recalls says mr. briggs told was being set honey trap mr. noriega try involve orgy then record event sound video mr. briggs vacation resigning position national security council n't be reached comment mr. noriega political troubles grew so did offers assistance contras apparent attempt curry more favor washington instance helped steal may panamanian elections ruling party just month later also contributed contra leader according documents released oliver north criminal trial washington d.c yet political setbacks mounted mr. noriega was accused ordering beheading hugo spadafora most outspoken political opponent first man publicly finger mr. noriega drug trafficking charges then ousted president nicholas ardito barletta former world bank official close ties u.s. mr. barletta tried create commission investigate murder while panama debt problems continued grow mr. noriega was growing desperate late made offer thought u.s. n't refuse recounted stipulation summarized government documents released north trial mr. noriega offered assassinate sandinista leadership exchange promise help clean noriega image commitment lift u.s ban military sales panamanian defense forces north document went referring oliver north has told noriega representative u.s. law forbade such actions representative responded noriega had numerous assets place nicaragua accomplish many essential things just noriega had helped u.s previous year blowing sandinista arsenal col. north conveyed request superiors assistant secretary state elliot abrams relayed secretary state george shultz mr. noriega proposal was turned mr. shultz curtly told mr. abrams general be told only repair tarnished image end marriage was hand weeks unfolding iran-contra scandal took away mr. noriega insurance policy death cia director william casey resignation oliver north allowed anti-noriega political forces gain influence public protests were triggered june due charges diaz herrera former chief staff mr. noriega had stolen election had ordered killing messrs. spadafora torrijos few american officials were willing longer defend lawyers miami time working virtually impediment prepared have indicted drug charges february negotiations american officials may proposals drop u.s. indictments exchange resignation mr. noriega often asked almost plaintively americans had helped so many years turn now side u.s. mr. noriega has easy out president bush has sworn bring justice mr. noriega believes has n't alternative continue clutching power is knock-out battle perhaps death end is mr. noriega political equivalent frankenstein monster created well-intentioned misguided foreign power not quite sen. leahy contends short-term gains people were willing put allowed get stronger stronger says do n't think created as much fed nurtured let grow be big strong