bullish dollar sentiment has fizzled many currency analysts say massive sell-off probably n't occur near future wall street tough times lower u.s. interest rates continue undermine dollar weakness pound yen is expected offset factors default dollar probably be able hold pretty well coming days says francoise soares-kemp foreign-exchange adviser credit suisse 're close bottom near-term ranges contends late friday afternoon new york trading dollar was marks yen off late thursday marks yen pound strengthened tokyo monday u.s. currency opened trading yen friday tokyo close yen dollar began friday firm note gaining major currencies tokyo dealings early european trading reports bank japan was seen unloading dollars around yen rise came traders continued dump pound sudden resignation thursday british chancellor exchequer nigel lawson once pound steadied help purchases bank england federal reserve bank new york dollar was dragged traders say stock-market slump left dow jones industrial average loss points stock market wobbly dollar buyers discouraged signs u.s. economic weakness recent decline u.s. interest rates has diminished attractiveness dollar-denominated investments traders say dollar is still precarious position be looking levels sell dollar says james scalfaro foreign-exchange marketing representative bank montreal analysts say dollar eventually test support marks yen mr. scalfaro others do n't see currency decisively sliding support marks yen soon predictions limited dollar losses are based largely pound weak state mr. lawson resignation yen inability strengthen substantially are dollar retreats pound yen lagging other major currencies do n't have confirmation sharp dollar downturn is works says mike malpede senior currency analyst refco inc. chicago as far pound goes traders say slide support be favorable development dollar week pound has attempted stabilize currency analysts say is critical condition sterling plunged about cents thursday hit week low mr. lawson resigned six-year post policy squabble other cabinet members was succeeded john major friday expressed desire firm pound supported relatively high british interest rates said are working exactly as intended reducing inflation market remains uneasy mr. major policy strategy prospects pound currency analysts contend bank england tight monetary policy has fueled worries britain slowing economy is headed recession is widely believed mr. lawson willingness prop pound interest-rate increases helped stem pound selling recent weeks are signs mr. major be less inclined use interest-rate boosts rescue pound plunge currency is expected fall sharply 's fair say are more risks pound major were lawson says malcolm roberts director international bond market research salomon brothers london 's very little upside sterling mr. roberts says adds near-term losses be small selling wave followed mr. major appointment apparently has run course other analysts have stormier forecast pound particularly britain inflation is hovering relatively lofty annual rate about % nation is burdened struggling government large current account trade deficits pound likely fall coming days trade as low marks next year says nigel rendell international economist james capel co. london pound was marks late friday off sharply new york trading week earlier pound falls closer marks bank england raise britain base lending rate percentage point % says mr. rendell increase says be viewed market too little too late bank england indicated desire leave monetary policy unchanged friday declining raise official % discount-borrowing rate charges discount houses analysts say pound concerns aside lack strong buying interest yen is boon dollar many traders say dollar has natural base support around yen japanese currency has n't been purchased heavily recent weeks says ms. soares-kemp credit suisse yen softness says apparently stems japanese investors interest buying dollars yen purchase u.s. bond issues persistent worries year upheaval japanese government new york commodity exchange friday gold current delivery jumped ounce highest settlement july estimated volume was heavy ounces early trading hong kong monday gold was quoted ounce