scene opens pinstripe-suited executives easterners obviously glued cellular phones hightailing town chauffeur-driven limousines carpetbaggers snorts narrator texas twang have packed bags went continues 're forgetting 're texans lone star is rise again music swells viewers discover 're watching commercial lone star beer pride texas product g. heileman brewing co. la crosse wis. unit bond corp ad tone implies texas spirit is pretty xenophobic days lone star is n't alone trying take advantage chevy trucks lipton iced tea host battling banks state has been inundated broadcast commercials print advertising campaigns celebrating texans castigating outsiders advertisers have long appealed texans state pride prejudices latest trend has been sparked part state recent hard economic times has taken swagger natives like brag texas is only state was once nation has increased legendary resentment outsiders past writes houston chronicle columnist jim barlow outlanders were accepted only passing series tests prove had right texas attitudes course had be dipped parasites is small irony fact most-jingoistic advertising comes courtesy guessed outsiders lone star bond corp. parent instance hails perth australia north carolinians new yorkers californians chicagoans ohioans own texas banks kinds landmark texas real estate has been snapped out-of-staters even beloved dallas cowboys were bought arkansas oil man texas has lost distinctiveness leaving texans hunger feel proud says stephen klineberg sociology professor rice university houston plays right hands advertising agencies example iced-tea radio campaign thomas j. lipton co. englewood cliffs n.j. unit anglo-dutch unilever group emphatically proclaims real texans do not wear dock-siders ever real texans do n't play paddleball least hope not is football country thing real texans drink lipton iced tea developing theme interpublic group cos lintas new york unit account supervisor lisa buksbaum says made couple phone calls dallas ad friends reported findings team writers findings know says stereotypical stuff armadillos cowboys football not exactly sophisticated market research cares as long campaigns work ad agencies insist do stan richards richards group inc. dallas tells texan saw agency tear-jerking commercial first gibraltar bank f.s.b. complete state anthem promptly invested thrift cds never mind first gibraltar is failed texas thrifts taken outsiders case investor group headed new york financier ronald perelman north texas chevy dealers recently had record sales month debut ad campaign thumbs nose elite easterners deposits ncnb texas national bank unit ncnb corp. charlotte n.c. have increased last year heavy advertising stressing commitment texas obviously pride sells texas says spokeswoman bozell inc. omaha neb. represents ad campaigns usually follow tracks stressing company texasness pointing competition lack thereof trying be more texan texans ford trucks outsell chevy trucks places connecticut long island sniffs commercial chevrolet division general motors corp commercial created bateman bryan galles inc. dallas adds derisively bet takes real tough truck haul ivy league buddies yacht club want truck is texas tough commercial concludes texans drive chevy j.c. penney co. relocated new york suburban dallas years gently wraps texas pride full-page magazine ad taking long-range view conserve is value future generations is part lone star lifestyle ad reads 's part style too according several ad-agency sources newcomers texas banking market are spending combined year woo texans meanwhile surviving texas banking institutions are busily pitching only lenders truly care state most-strident anti-outsider sentiment bankers comes independent bankers association texas 's hard tell previews 's texas tv campaign commercials highlight heart-rending scenes texas chest-swelling ain't-it-great-to-be-a-texan music supporting banks sign texas declaration independents introductory material campaign trade group urges members arm revolution big out-of-state bank-holding companies video sent association members featuring shots alamo cowboys fajitas statue sam houston does n't mince words texans sniff phony mile away narrator warns outsiders so do n't come try con cowboy hat young rubicam pact young rubicam fighting charges bribed jamaican officials win jamaica tourist board ad account said no longer create tourist board advertising statement alex kroll young rubicam chairman said present circumstances have agreed is prudent discontinue contract young rubicam has pleaded innocent charges board n't comment impending search new ad agency handle estimated account ad notes new account sunshine biscuits inc. woodbridge n.j. awarded estimated account waring larosa new york account had been della femina mcnamee wcrs new york media policy macnamara clapp klein small new york shop is asking magazine ad representatives tell major advertising inserts run publications says pull clients ads magazines coke ads coca-cola co. said produced new version like teach world sing commercial ad is part classic coke ad campaign tag line n't beat real thing basketball star michael jordan singer randy travis have also agreed appear ads