former usx corp. chairman david m. roderick have been lucky retired last may handed reins successor charles a. corry steel profits were close cyclical peak imports were troublesome were n't running away market american companies had high hopes steel import quotas be extended years perhaps most important carl icahn had once threatened hostile takeover bid was subdued mr. roderick were even dining together today mr. corry presides company fortunes have changed abruptly mr. icahn company deep-pocketed tenacious adversary recently disclosed had raised usx stake % again threatened takeover battle mr. icahn rattle even most seasoned chief executive say nothing one took helm less months ago addition usx giant steel segment representing % sales is facing softening demand slipping prices as well increasing competition foreign steelmakers low-cost minimills import quotas got only extension usx is laboring staggering debt time spend money upgrade steel mills drill oil 's baptism fire corry says usx executive burning question is new chief parry mr. icahn being pushed unwelcome moves mr. corry have dismember company more wants have incur huge expense buying mr. icahn stock possibly premium paying stockholders special dividend partly mr. icahn pressure recent purchases usx common stock mr. icahn shattered three-year-old unwritten standstill agreement mr. roderick mr. roderick adroitly dodged mr. icahn first bullet takeover specialist had built % stake mr. roderick did so having usx redeem series guaranteed notes move effect raised cost icahn bid managed fend further advances even strike unlikely friendship interloper dinners new york sky club links club restaurants steel executive big investor talked steel international trade thoroughbred horses mr. corry has boned up corporate raiders reading t. boone pickens autobiography had hoped detente continue was shocked associates say learn mr. icahn new takeover threat men declined be interviewed article fiercely competitive mr. corry quickly showed 's pushover huddled directors special meeting weeks ago tried block opponent board believed mr. icahn is more interested talking stock price higher acquiring usx adopted poison-pill defense be swallowed anyone amasses % stake now 's mr. icahn move try gain seat control board force radical split usx separate oil steel companies given weakness junk-bond market finance buy-out mr. icahn not want sell out get special dividend similar one received selling stake texaco inc. june coup gave enough cash make usx move recent turmoil stock junk-bond markets making harder arrange takeover financing has eased pressure mr. corry does n't end takeover threat know 's not sober-faced mr. corry acknowledged greeting steel suppliers new york oct. inviting buffet salmon sushi honor kobe steel ltd. usx partner steel mill lorain ohio fact 's barely begun mr. corry faces tough decisions has had chance get settled new job 's vulnerable position has n't established much credibility own says bryan jacoboski securities analyst painewebber inc 57-year-old tax attorney never even aspired job chief executive undistinguished college student dabbled zoology concluded n't stand cutting frogs mr. corry wanted work big company do big things joining tax department usx subsidiary years ago set modest goal becoming tax manager age years quietly stuck back accounting rooms wearing hat work everyone else did was never rebel said earlier interview do n't think most people have been ever say 've seen pound table get angry unassuming mr. corry helped chart usx transition big steel big oil served mr. roderick front man tense negotiations purchase marathon oil nevertheless mr. corry once named chief executive did n't waste time distancing former boss still has office 62nd floor usx tower pittsburgh soon taking over last june mr. corry rescinded pay cut imposed clerical workers move mr. roderick had n't made spite improved earnings mr. corry also ruled board meetings be held pittsburgh instead new york findlay ohio marathon home earlier month announced sale reserves texas oil gas was acquired years ago has n't posted significant operating profits former executive says nobody wanted deal usx dave roderick was hunting fishing buddy william l. hutchison chairman texas oil gas executive recalls mr. corry whispering others remember was dave deal miffed many usx executives shareholders was acquisition stock doubled usx shares outstanding considerably diluted 's more takeover occurred natural-gas prices were falling just texas oil gas reported first annual loss years mr. corry expected texas oil gas sale delight mr. icahn addressing concern boosting shareholder value men met new york day mr. icahn disclosed rise usx stake mr. corry learned mr. icahn wanted sell texas oil not just reserves cubic feet natural gas barrels oil also pipeline gas-gathering contract-drilling operations leave usx marathon steel mills diversified business segment includes other things mineral transportation products speculate mr. corry agree find buyer right price problem is mr. icahn is pushing move faster further restructuring usx mr. corry had planned mr. icahn has long believed associates say company sales totaled is worth share broken stock closed yesterday giving mr. icahn shares value mr. icahn advocates sale company steel operations mr. corry does n't necessarily disagree predecessor saw steel america backbone mr. corry tends view capital-draining labor-intensive business limited potential associates say past years usx has turned steel profit maker closing several plants reducing labor costs short-term outlook is so-so is n't surprising messrs. roderick corry view steel so differently mr. roderick was reared shadows pittsburgh smoking mills mr. corry grew up cincinnati city nicknamed porkapolis more accustomed pork chops pig iron has never met lynn williams president united steelworkers union is n't active industry main trade group american iron steel institute mr. roderick served chairman dave thought country needed strong u.s. steel chuck agreed was more apt say not cost shareholders former executive says indeed mr. corry august press conference talked investing steel as long provides good return not day longer however shedding steel run directly counter mr. roderick original rationale diversifying oil gas having major products lessen company vulnerability market down cycle help smooth flow cash earnings mr. roderick once said 're two-product company n't figure value parts are so damn dumb do n't belong wall street moreover opportunity sell steel price acceptable usx be gone now time has passed spin steel public offering buyer executive contends only way usx now get steel is dish piece piece separate joint ventures adds mr. icahn breathing neck however mr. corry have little choice sell weak price even means losing steel-related tax-loss carryforwards leave usx essentially oil company marathon core marathon has benefited higher crude-oil prices strong demand refined products oil has long been mr. corry pet indeed bush administration finally decided summer renew import restrictions arguably most important decision affect steel industry years mr. corry directors were helicopters high marathon rich oil reserves north sea usx be left only marathon mr. corry well feel pushed scout other energy companies however even usx executives work closely are n't sure long-term goals do n't think has clear sense wants company go says right now executive adds wants continue focus paying usx debt selling assets thing is certain however mr. corry studying other options probably n't make major move 's clear mr. icahn intentions then n't panic says j. bruce johnston former usx executive now labor benefit consultant adler cohen grigsby pittsburgh mr. corry learned presence fire vice president corporate planning handled mr. johnston calls don't-con-me negotiations led usx 's shedding wide array assets ranging chemicals construction negotiating mr. corry played cards close vest johnnie johnson worked mr. corry strategic planning recalls boss routinely ask subordinate research entire industry target acquisition candidates really wanted know was particular company did n't know wanted own unbiased virgin opinion says mr. johnson now managing director georgeson co. proxy-solicitation investor-relations firm ever pragmatist mr. corry said august realized usx is acquisition screens country 's part capitalistic market system equity be bought equity is bought said usx noted was formed years ago effect buying bunch other companies people got rich takeovers days do today thomas f. o'boyle contributed article