office wall senate intelligence committee hangs quote chairman david boren do n't hold ticket show 's once used line closed-door meeting panama meaning do n't shrink taking action manuel noriega so did good senator end up approving policy required u.s. warn mr. noriega coup plot agree 's ridiculous says mr. boren indeed now ridiculous be only way describe u.s. decides take rather not take covert action george bush disclosed policy last week reading gop senators perhaps way shifting blame panama fiasco congress broader truth is more complicated dismaying policy was contained exchange letters last october senate intelligence committee cia national security council staff lawyers sides were busy agreeing one u.s. not do oust panamanian thug simply got carried away interpreting executive order banning assassinations really meant mr. boren did n't discover warn-your-enemy nuance mr. bush told privately white house last week 's ironic david boren be center mire former oklahoma governor 's thoughtful defender presidential powers foreign policy 's rare democratic hawk 's senator most arthur vandenberg gop senator michigan worked forge bipartisan foreign policy 1940s vandenberg rayburn are heroes mine mr. boren says referring as well sam rayburn democratic house speaker cooperated president eisenhower allowed country be credible really want see happen again were mr. boren even succeed most senators have other ideas last july committee rejected reagan administration plan support coup panama ohio democrat howard metzenbaum refused support plan get people hurt charming notion great power maine republican william cohen said plan violate assassination ban so administration dropped october committee rejected much more modest covert proposal even administration was agreeing little be done mr. boren does n't think influenced failed coup month does concede congress has made mistakes aftermath vietnam aftermath iran-contra understand people think plan coup have bring lawyers says even mr. boren defends congressional oversight writing harvard international review says committee approves covert operations only 's consensus so does consensus mean does n't mean unanimous insists implies means bipartisan majority sustainability u.s. foreign policy is essential explains was containment so successful had bipartisan support mr. boren is confusing consensus general principles agreement specific actions elliott abrams veteran intelligence committee debates doubts even grenada libyan raid have taken place consensus had been required vandenberg rayburn were wise enough leave specific operations presidents modern senators mr. boren are less modest result is senate committee has amounts veto power covert action n't say 's quite veto mr. boren demurs n't president acted senate objections be taking grave political risks agrees chairman is something president know goes ahead mr. boren even spies silver lining figures episode help clarify ambiguities committee administration points letter desk second week president bush saying do n't disagree more broadly mr. boren hopes panama shock washington fear using military power maybe jolt post-vietnam syndrome never are prepared use force says maybe senator shared principles mr. boren 's just as plausible argue even david boren get mired sort mess problem goes legal interpretation maybe problem is political system n't act exchange letters insists running foreign policy committee treats president as just guy table reply metzenbaums cohens is n't abolish oversight committees 've seen too many abuses executive power panama illustrates substitute is system produces absurd gridlock lawyers are now charge national security panama u.s. interests stake were happily minor only people killed were foreigners hapless enough trust american will americans not be so lucky next time