time magazine move reduce costs wooing new subscribers is lowering circulation guarantee advertisers second consecutive year increasing subscription rates cutting merchandise giveaways announcement staff last week executives time warner inc. weekly magazine said time dramatically de-emphasize use electronic giveaways such telephones television subscription drives cut circulation guarantees advertisers increase cost annual subscription rate about related development news-weekly fourth year row said n't increase advertising rates full four-color page magazine costs about however guaranteed circulation base is being lowered ad rates be effectively % higher subscriber according richard heinemann time associate publisher time is following course other mass-circulation magazines recent years have challenged publishing myth maintaining artificially high expensive circulations is way draw advertisers recent years reader digest new york times co. mccall most recently news corp. tv guide have cut massive circulation rate bases eliminate marginal circulation hold rates advertisers deep discounts subscriptions offers free clock radios watches have become accepted forms attracting new subscribers hyper-competitive world magazine news-weeklies time part more cost-conscious time warner wants wean away expensive gimmicks besides time executives think selling news magazine clock radio is tacky giveaways just give people wrong image said mr. heinemann perception takes focus magazine time magazine executives predictably paint circulation cut show strength actually benefit advertisers are doing is screening readers are only casually related magazine do n't really read said mr. heinemann are trying create quality involvement however time executives used same explanation october magazine cut guaranteed circulation time paid circulation according audit bureau circulations dropped % months ended june still time move is being received well once again 's terrific advertisers know reader be paying more said michael drexler national media director bozell inc. ad agency few drops circulation are consequence 's not show weakness are improving quality circulation insuring profits mr. heinemann said changes represent new focus magazine industry magazine net revenue subscriber actual revenue subscribers discounts cost premiums have been stripped question is much are getting reader said mr. heinemann time rivals news-weeklies washington post co. newsweek u.s. news world report are less reliant electronic giveaways recent years have been increasing circulation rate bases magazines are expected announce ad rates circulation levels month