wary investors have been running stock market equivalent bomb shelters buying shares gold-mining utility companies groups have recently been leading list stocks setting new highs friday only dozen common stocks hit 52-week highs new york stock exchange were gold-mining issues were utilities monday mere common stocks managed new highs were utilities golds first glance gold utilities seem strange bedfellows gold prices usually soar inflation is high utility stocks other hand thrive disinflation fat dividends utilities pay look more attractive prices are falling rising slowly groups have something very important common are havens scared money stocks people hate stocks investors past few days are betting something is going go wrong even do n't know stock market economy catch breath show 're firmer footing stocks well fall back indeed happened extent yesterday industrial stocks rebounded partly news takeovers paper industry still lot investors clearly have revived interest gold utility shares primary overriding thing is people are frightened says martin sass new york money manager aftershocks oct. dow jones industrial average dropped points are still reverberating certainly oct. sell-off did n't settle stomachs money managers analysts see other problems inventories are creeping up car inventories are already high big auto makers are idling plants takeover fever has cooled removing major horse market cart britain unsettled political scene also worries investors gyrations british government add political uncertainty top high inflation ragged stock market says john hoffman assistant director research smith barney harris upham co major markets world is getting chewed pretty bad fed does not come rescue produce lower short-term interest rates next days market 's going flounder says larry wachtel market analyst prudential-bache securities sort sentiment common 's natural investors seek defensive investments utilities are classic example even recessions people continue use electric power water gas fairly steady rate such defensive issues food tobacco drug stocks have been favor time many stocks have now become expensive mr. wachtel points coca-cola co. pepsico inc. examples 're selling times estimated per-share earnings gold stocks are n't cheap basis either many selling times earnings more even utility stocks are n't all that inexpensive average times earnings groups represent further step defensiveness gold stocks utilities continue lead signal market is rough times 's just joseph granville expects are going explode lower says flamboyant market seer had huge following few years back anyone telling buy stocks market is technically irresponsible do n't want own anything long gold stocks reason gloom is weekly tally keeps stocks point hitting new highs lows last friday stocks big board hit new 12-month lows mr. granville count issues were point such lows robert stovall veteran new york money manager president securities has money gold utility issues think very well have economic slowdown beginning very soon not already says mr. stovall does n't expect actual recession does expect muffler dragger economy very slow growth maybe quarter growth climate utility stocks look good favors fpl group inc. florida progress corp. teco energy inc. wisconsin energy corp. dominion resources inc appeal gold issues mr. stovall says is 're counter group go move counter general market adds gold stocks had been down so long were ready bounce favorites are american barrick resources corp. echo bay mines ltd. coeur d'alene mines corp nevertheless mr. stovall emphasizes do n't buy gold stocks based powerful fundamentals addition having high price-earnings ratios most pay puny dividends earning power gold mining companies is restricted gold price hops ounce says abby cohen investment strategist drexel burnham lambert also thinks makes sense have money utilities gold outlook is decline about % corporate profits says bunch utilities post profit increases utilities drexel currently favors entergy corp. general public utilities corp gold notes usually rises dollar is weak has been lately gold stocks drexel likes battle mountain gold co. newmont gold co. freeport-mcmoran gold co