bad real estate loans continued gnaw third-quarter profits southwestern banks notable exception institutions cleansed books federal bailouts 've got two-tiered market said frank w. anderson analyst stephens inc. little rock ark top said are such dynamos ncnb corp. first city bancorp texas acquired big ailing texas banks government-assisted transactions allowed slough bad loans are expected ring big profits third quarter mr. anderson said rest warns james mcdermott analyst keefe bruyette woods new york asset quality concerns are going dominate third-quarter reports example bankers inc. san antonio texas is expecting uptick non-performing loans related real estate third quarter said thomas frost chairman chief executive only major bank holding company texas survive bailout merger managed only very modest earnings period said government handed big bucket money look good too mr. frost added ncnb corp. texas operation other hand is expected report operating profit line perhaps bit better results first quarters timothy hartman vice chairman texas unit said texas unit had operating profit first quarter second quarter ncnb based charlotte n.c. bought banking assets failed first republic bank corp. dallas last year transaction expected cost federal deposit insurance corp. first republic is n't related first republic bancorp san francisco robert rieke analyst raucher pierce refsnes inc. dallas estimates houston-based first city third-quarter net was higher second quarter earnings however estimated per-share earnings stayed relatively flat second quarter 's share total number shares outstanding increased first city was recapitalized last year group led chicago banker a. robert abboud fdic contributed nearly new organization more recent texas bailouts n't have much impact third quarter results new parent companies analysts said include sale mcorp failed banks banc corp. columbus ohio sale national bancshares corp. texas equimark corp. pittsburgh sale texas american bancshares inc. banking assets deposit guaranty bank dallas transactions have n't yet been completed texas units are still unprofitable said ronald steinhart chairman deposit guaranty n't see newly cleansed bank operation approximately dec. texas biggest real estate nightmare banks region is probably arizona arizona is going be mess said keefe bruyette mr. mcdermott several banks operations arizona including first interstate bancorp. security pacific corp. los angeles have already indicated see asset-quality problems chase manhattan corp. new york last month took charge earnings related real estate loans chase bank arizona several credit rating agencies recently downgraded senior debt valley national corp. warning phoenix-based bank holding company is vulnerable deteriorating real estate market special addition reserves second quarter valley remains poorly reserved real estate exposure moody investors service inc. said july few bright spots region is colorado mild economic recovery has helped several banks staunch flow red ink instance united banks colorado inc. state largest multibank holding company resumed cash dividend earlier year recording straight quarters profitability more good news comes new mexico banks did n't have as much opportunity get difficulty first place state never grew fast enough get banking organizations real trouble banking organizations were never big enough lend trouble said mr. rieke raucher pierce refsnes