congressional democrats bush administration agreed compromise minimum-wage bill opening way first wage-floor boost more years agreement ended long impasse congressional leaders white house wage issue president bush june vetoed measure passed congress said n't accept minimum-wage rise went limits set early year debate issue compromise was somewhat softened version white house had said accept agreement house senate leaders minimum wage rise current hour hour april employers also pay subminimum training wage days new workers are up years old then days company institutes specific training program newcomers white house officials were delighted compromise includes concept training wage mr. bush has fought year first time history have training wage be part nation labor laws said roger porter assistant president economic domestic policy white house aides said made small compromise length training wage final minimum-wage increase meet standards set mr. bush bill vetoed president june house failed override have lifted minimum wage hour late training wage up months generally worker first job mr. bush had been holding out bill boosting wage floor hour end coupled six-month training wage workers newly hired employer compromise level be reached months earlier training subminimum be shorter is tied training plan democrats argued training wage was way allowing employers pay less minimum wage new workers need far less months be trained jobs democrats had been negotiating republican congressional leaders compromise lately congressional elections year gop leaders have worried opposing minimum-wage rise low-paid workers time congress is moving capital-gains tax cut directly benefit wealthier taxpayers republicans have been imploring white house compromise wage issue senate edward kennedy d. mass. chairman labor committee pete domenici r. n.m ranking minority member budget committee have been working compromise soundings showed senate appeared be heading enough strength override bush veto democratic staff official said house is scheduled vote week compromise substitute new democratic bill watered down last spring version senate probably vote not long afterward democrats thought have compromised too much rep. austin murphy d. pa. chairman house labor standards subcommittee said have done better 'd held feet fire mr. kennedy suggested democrats yielded great deal size increase cited concessions white house training wage said make less harsh only 16-year-olds 19-year-olds eligible % workers getting less hour are adults n't be subject training wage said afl-cio previously opposed administration subminimum idea said compromise has adequate safeguards youth are not exploited older workers are not displaced gerald f. seib contributed article