form asbestos once used make kent cigarette filters has caused high percentage cancer deaths group workers exposed more years researchers reported asbestos fiber crocidolite is unusually resilient enters lungs even brief exposures causing symptoms show decades later researchers said lorillard inc. unit new york-based loews corp. makes kent cigarettes stopped using crocidolite micronite cigarette filters preliminary findings were reported more year latest results appear today new england journal medicine forum likely bring new attention problem lorillard spokewoman said is old story 're talking years anyone heard asbestos having questionable properties is asbestos products now lorillard researchers studied workers were aware research smokers kent cigarettes have useful information users are risk said james a. talcott boston dana-farber cancer institute dr. talcott led team researchers national cancer institute medical schools harvard university boston university lorillard spokeswoman said asbestos was used very modest amounts making paper filters early replaced different type filter kent cigarettes filters were sold company said men worked closely substance have died more times expected number surviving workers have asbestos-related diseases including recently diagnosed cancer total deaths malignant mesothelioma lung cancer asbestosis was far higher expected researchers said morbidity rate is striking finding study asbestos-related diseases said dr. talcott percentage lung cancer deaths workers west groton mass. paper factory appears be highest asbestos workers studied western industrialized countries said plant is owned hollingsworth vose co. was contract lorillard make cigarette filters finding probably support argue u.s. regulate class asbestos including crocidolite more stringently common kind asbestos chrysotile found most schools other buildings dr. talcott said u.s. is few industrialized nations does n't have higher standard regulation smooth needle-like fibers such crocidolite are classified amphobiles according brooke t. mossman professor pathlogy university vermont college medicine more common chrysotile fibers are curly are more easily rejected body dr. mossman explained july environmental protection agency imposed gradual ban virtually uses asbestos almost remaining uses cancer-causing asbestos be outlawed workers factory made paper kent filters were exposed asbestos areas factory were particularly dusty crocidolite was used workers dumped large burlap sacks imported material huge bin poured cotton acetate fibers mechanically mixed dry fibers process used make filters workers described clouds blue dust hung parts factory even exhaust fans ventilated area 's question workers managers contracted asbestos-related diseases said darrell phillips vice president human resources hollingsworth vose have recognize events took place years has bearing work force today