sales north american-built cars trucks plunged % mid-october year earlier domestic manufacturers paid price heavy incentives earlier year people are waiting new factory giveaways said ben kaye sales manager bob brest auto world lynn mass. sales are slow trend appears be especially true general motors corp. used dealer consumer incentives ignite sales august september then deliveries have slumped gm car sales dropped % mid-october truck sales fell % gm also had dismal results first days month other auto makers reported mixed results big suffered just-ended period however sales domestically made cars including built japanese-managed plants falling % year earlier seasonal adjusted annual selling rate was vehicles small improvement rate early october big drop rate year ago sales domestically made trucks also continued be sluggish mid-october dropping % year ago big auto makers already have slashed fourth-quarter production plans % year-ago levels not be enough prevent inventories ballooning sales do n't improve industry analyst john h. qualls vice president hill knowlton st. louis forecasts domestic auto makers have 93-day supply cars end year even car sales improve vehicle rate quarter ford motor co. reported % drop sales domestic-made cars % drop domestic trucks sales are being dragged glut vehicles said joel pitcoff ford analyst earlier use incentives depleted market scavengers bargain-basement cars said town country ford charlotte n.c. still needs move about cars trucks business had been fairly strong hurricane hugo hit area has been down since chrysler corp. also hit rocks mid-october no. u.s. auto maker had % plunge car sales % drop truck sales include minivans jeeps honda motor co. continues have short supplies domestically made accords saw sales north american-built cars fall % sales domestic cars trucks nissan motor corp. rose % nissan spokesman attributed increase use incentives year not year ago higher fleet sales toyota motor corp. opened plant georgetown ky. last year saw sales triple vehicles totals include only vehicle sales reported period domestic car percent change greater % were selling days most recent period year earlier percentage differences based daily sales rate rather sales volume