following were yesterday offerings pricings u.s. non-u.s. capital markets terms syndicate manager compiled dow jones capital markets report tenneco credit corp. % senior notes due nov. priced yield % noncallable issue was priced spread basis points treasury seven-year note rated baa-2 moody investors service inc. triple-b-plus standard poor corp. issue be sold underwriters led merrill lynch capital markets tenneco credit is unit tenneco inc allegany health system three-part issue revenue bonds tentatively priced morgan stanley co. group offering includes new issue tampa fla. series revenue bonds st. joseph hospital inc. due bonds are tentatively priced yield % % other portions deal are remarketings outstanding debt rather new issues bonds are rated single-a moody single-a-plus s&p according lead underwriter city county honolulu general obligation bonds series b due bear stearns co. group bonds rated double-a moody s&p were priced yield % % federal national mortgage association remic mortgage securities being offered classes shearson lehman hutton inc offering series backed fannie mae % securities brings fannie mae remic issuance total remic volume program began april pricing terms were n't available kyushu electric power co japan % bonds due nov. priced yield % full fees yamaichi international europe ltd fees toshiba corp japan bonds due nov. equity-purchase warrants indicating % coupon par nomura international ltd bond carries warrant exercisable dec. nov. buy company shares expected premium % closing share price terms are fixed nov. credit lyonnais australia ltd french parent australian dollars % bonds due nov. priced yield % full fees hambros bank ltd guarantee credit lyonnais fees world bank agency % bonds due aug. offered yield % baring brothers co tap outstanding issue also issued were yen bonds due dec. priced coupon paid australian dollars ltcb international ltd interest first year paid semiannually % thereafter interest paid annually % world bank also offered swiss francs % bonds due nov. priced yield % credit suisse option borrower increase issue amount francs mandom corp japan swiss francs privately placed convertible notes due march fixed % coupon par nomura bank switzerland put march fixed yield % swiss franc note convertible dec. march % premium closing share price nov. terms are fixed nippon air brake co japan swiss francs privately placed convertible notes due march fixed % coupon par yamaichi bank switzerland put march fixed yield % swiss franc note convertible nov. march % premium closing share price nov. terms are fixed credit suisse finance gibraltar ltd swiss parent lire % bonds due june priced yield % full fees banca nazionale lavaro guarantee credit suisse fees maryland national bank securities backed home-equity lines credit merrill lynch capital markets bank is subsidiary baltimore-based mnc financial inc securities were priced float monthly basis points 30-day commercial paper rate issue formally titled mnb home equity loan asset backed certificates series represent interest trust fund home equity revolving credit line loans originated retail finance division maryland national bank secured primarily second deeds trust second mortgages single four-family residential properties securities are rated triple-a moody duff phelps inc are expected have average life years maryland national bank retail finance division continue service loans first national bank chicago act trustee transaction be supported % letter credit issued dai-ichi kangyo bank ltd. chicago branch province nova scotia % debentures due nov. priced yield % noncallable issue be put back province was priced spread basis points treasury 10-year note rated single-a-2 moody single-a-minus s&p issue be sold underwriters led merrill lynch capital markets