pick country country 's latest investment craze sweeping wall street rash new closed-end country funds publicly traded portfolios invest stocks single foreign country no fewer country funds have been launched registered regulators year triple level according charles e. simon co. washington-based research firm turf recently has ranged chile austria portugal next week philippine fund launch be capped visit philippine president corazon aquino the first time head state has kicked issue big board here next province anything 's possible new guinea fund quips george foot managing partner newgate management associates northampton mass recent explosion country funds mirrors closed-end fund mania 1920s mr. foot says narrowly focused funds grew wildly popular fell oblivion crash traditional open-end mutual funds most one-country portfolios are closed-end type issuing fixed number shares trade publicly surge brings nearly number country funds are soon be listed new york london funds now account several billions dollars assets people are looking stake claims now before number available nations runs says michael porter analyst smith barney harris upham co. new york hoopla is heavy-duty competition individual investors have turned away stock market years securities firms have scrambled find new products brokers find easy sell firms are stretching nets far wide do financial planners often urge investors diversify hold smattering international securities many emerging markets have outpaced more mature markets such u.s. japan country funds offer easy way get taste foreign stocks hard research seeking individual companies does n't take much get burned political currency gyrations whipsaw funds concern funds share prices tend swing more broader market stock market dropped nearly % oct. instance mexico fund plunged about % spain fund fell % most country funds were clobbered more most stocks crash 's so wild funds frenzy right now is many are trading historically fat premiums value underlying portfolios trading average discount more % late part last year country funds currently trade average premium % reason share prices many funds year have climbed much more sharply foreign stocks hold 's probably paying premium funds invest markets are partially closed foreign investors such south korea specialists say european funds recently have skyrocketed spain fund has surged startling % premium has been targeted japanese investors good long-term play tied european economic integration several new funds are n't even fully invested yet have jumped trade big premiums 'm very alarmed see rich valuations says smith barney mr. porter newly fattened premiums reflect increasingly global marketing country funds mr. porter suggests many u.s. investors asia europe seeking foreign-stock exposure be less resistant paying higher prices country funds be international viewpoint cast funds listed here mr. porter says nonetheless plenty u.s. analysts money managers are aghast lofty trading levels country funds argue u.s. investors often buy american depositary receipts big stocks many funds so-called adrs represent shares foreign companies traded u.s way investors essentially buy funds paying premium people insist jumping in now buy funds newgate mr. foot says only advice have folks is come party late had better be ready leave quickly