right away notice following things philip glass concert attracts people funny hair hair front girl spiked locks sat boy had shaved constitute local left bank come out force dressed black smattering yuppies want be cutting edge people glass houses tend look stoned still conscious evening end notice something else audience first entranced hypnotized music releases pent-up feelings collective gratitude currently middle four-week 20-city tour solo pianist mr. glass has left synthesizers equipment collaborators favor going alone sits down piano plays plays one likes one does n't typical glass audience is more likely be composed music students teachers certainly does work though sounds muzak spaceships philip glass is emperor music new clothes avant-garde success is easy understand softly introducing explaining pieces mr. glass looks sounds more shaggy poet describing work classical pianist playing recital piano compositions have been labeled variously minimalist oriental repetitive cyclical monophonic hypnotic are relentlessly tonal therefore unthreatening unvaryingly rhythmic therefore soporific unflaggingly harmonious unmelodic therefore pretty unconventional is music people want hear something different do n't want work especially hard task is e-z listening now generation mr. glass has inverted famous modernist dictum less is more more is always less far being minimalist music unabatingly torments apparent novelties not so cleverly disguised simplicities time octave intervals ragtime gospel chord progressions music has charm mr. glass has constructed solo program move simple relatively complex opening glassworks introduces audience glass technique never straying too far piano center mr. glass works octaves side middle c fingers seldom leave keys is recognizable musical style here not particular performance style music is not especially pianistic indeed 's hard imagine bad performance nothing bravura arpeggios ticklish fingering problems challenge performer hear think inner voices seem be saying same thing planet news music meant accompany readings allen ginsberg wichita vortex sutra mr. glass gets going hands sit farther apart keyboard seventh chords make feel break very slow improvisatory riff chords modulate is little filigree even fingers begin wander more keys contrasts predictably accumulate first music is loud then becomes soft then realize becomes louder again fourth knee play interlude einstein beach is toccata does n't seem move much left-hand ground blind mice mr. glass decides get really fancy crosses hands hits resonant bass note right hand does least solo pieces call leitmotif virtuoso accomplishment mad rush came commission write piece indeterminate length mr. glass charmingly tellingly confessed was problem a alternates b section several times piece ends unresolved not only is typical glasswork open-ended is also often multiple context mad rush began life accompaniment dalai lama first public address u.s. mr. glass played organ new york cathedral st. john divine later was performed radio bremen germany then lucinda childs took dance pieces point is piece be used background music virtually anything evening ended mr. glass metamorphosis multiple work parts come soundtrack errol morris acclaimed film thin blue line other parts incidental music separate dramatizations kafka story same name used background way music has appropriate eeriness two-note phrase descending minor third accompanies seemingly endless litany reports interviews confessions witnesses morris film served solo however music lacks resonance provided context medium admirers mr. glass agree critic richard kostelanetz sense music parts is as encyclopedic weighty well-tempered clavier making obvious point composers develop variations themes comparison ignores intensely claustrophobic nature mr. glass music supposedly austere minimalism overlays bombast makes yearn astringency neoclassical stravinsky genuinely radical minimalism berg webern retrospect even seems concision mahler mr. spiegelman is professor english southern methodist university editor southwest review