consortium private investors operating ljh funding co. said has made cash bid most l.j. hooker corp. real-estate shopping-center holdings bid includes assumption estimated secured liabilities properties according making bid group is led jay shidler chief executive officer shidler investment corp. honolulu a. boyd simpson chief executive atlanta-based simpson organization inc mr. shidler company specializes commercial real-estate investment claims have assets mr. simpson is developer former senior executive l.j. hooker assets are good require more money management be provided l.j. hooker current situation said mr. simpson interview hooker philosophy was build sell want build hold l.j. hooker based atlanta is operating protection creditors chapter u.s. bankruptcy code parent company hooker corp. sydney australia is currently being managed court-appointed provisional liquidator sanford sigoloff chief executive l.j. hooker said yesterday statement has not yet seen bid review bring attention creditors committee bid is estimated mr. simpson representing % value hooker real-estate holdings u.s not included bid are bonwit teller b. altman co. l.j. hooker department-store chains offer covers massive million-square-foot forest fair mall cincinnati square-foot richland fashion mall columbia s.c. square-foot thornton town center mall thornton colo thornton mall opened sept. bigg hypermarket anchor columbia mall is expected open nov. other hooker properties included are 20-story office tower midtown atlanta expected be completed february vacant land sites florida ohio l.j. hooker international commercial real-estate brokerage company once did business merrill lynch commercial real estate other shopping centers consortium was put together hoare govett london-based investment banking company is subsidiary security pacific corp do n't anticipate problems raising funding bid said allan campbell head mergers acquisitions hoare govett interview hoare govett is acting consortium investment bankers according people familiar consortium bid was code-named project klute reference film klute prostitute played actress jane fonda is saved psychotic businessman police officer named john klute l.j. hooker was small home-building company based atlanta mr. simpson was hired push commercial development company grew modestly majority position hooker corp. was acquired australian developer george herscu currently hooker chairman mr. herscu proceeded launch ambitious ill-fated acquisition binge included bonwit teller b. altman co. as well majority positions merksamer jewelers sacramento chain sakowitz inc. houston-based retailer parisian inc. southeast department-store chain eventually mr. simpson mr. herscu had falling direction company mr. simpson said resigned then hooker corp. has sold interest parisian chain back parisian management is currently attempting sell b. altman co. chain addition robert sakowitz chief executive sakowitz chain is seeking funds buy hooker interest company merksamer chain is currently being offered sale first boston corp reached honolulu mr. shidler said believes various hooker malls become profitable new management are n't mature assets have potential be so said mr. shidler managed properly long-term outlook become investment-grade quality properties