r.h. macy co. closely held department store chain said financial filing friday sales fiscal fourth quarter ended july were up % year earlier comparable store sales quarter were up % net loss quarter was year-earlier loss loss fourth quarter reflected part expenses unsuccessful bid federated department stores inc. as well restructuring department store operations year sales were up % compared fiscal sales years reflect 12-month performances year i. magnin bullock bullocks wilshire macy acquired businesses may comparable store basis including new acquisitions years sales fiscal were up % macy reported net loss fiscal compared net loss fiscal company earnings interest taxes depreciation bondholders use measurement chain ability pay existing debt increased % fiscal figures includes new acquisitions excluding businesses earnings interest taxes depreciation have been feb. bullocks wilshire stores operate i. magnin stores altogether macy subsidiaries own lease department stores specialty stores nationwide management led leveraged buy-out r.h. macy july company still makes financial filings publicly traded debt company estimates total debt includes long-term debt short-term debt current portion long-term debt letter investors chairman edward s. finkelstein wrote expects company benefit disruption faced competitors competitors are concerned financial viability possible ownership changes be concentrating buying selling merchandise customers need want mr. finkelstein is apparently referring b. altman bonwit teller new york retailers have recently filed chapter bankruptcy protection as well retail chains owned financially troubled campeau corp chains include bloomingdale campeau recently said sell other retail properties sale include saks fifth avenue marshall field retailers now owned b.a.t plc british tobacco conglomerate letter mr. finkelstein also referred recent san francisco earthquake mr. finkelstein flew san francisco day earthquake found company stores had sustained damage including breakage most windows i. magnin store union square volume profit impact fiscal first quarter not be positive looking whole fiscal year do n't see effect material wrote mr. finkelstein