philip morris cos. is launching massive corporate advertising campaign put tobacco giant name tv commercials first time early stopped advertising namesake cigarette brand television campaign patriotic celebration 200th anniversary bill rights does n't mention cigarettes smoking cigarette ads have been prohibited television even begins campaign is drawing fire anti-smoking advocates criticize philip morris attempt bolster beleaguered image wrapping document is cornerstone american democracy philip morris became u.s. largest food company last year acquisition kraft inc. seems determined evolve roots marlboro country company research suggests name recognition most consumers remains unusually low array brands including maxwell house coffee jell-o cheez whiz miller beer blanket supermarket shelves company is expected spend about year two-year corporate campaign created wpp group ogilvy mather unit new york initial spots appear morning prime-time news shows philip morris hopes taking bill rights theme airwaves addition publications reach broadest possible audience now corporate ads mainly promoting sponsorship arts have appeared almost exclusively newspapers magazines most people toledo tucson topeka have n't got clue are says guy l. smith philip morris vice president corporate affairs think well company support bill rights follows think well products mr. smith says bill rights commercial trumpets themes liberty freedom expression is n't designed have special appeal smokers philip morris typically tries defend rights smokers free-choice arguments has nothing do cigarettes ever spokesman says anti-smoking activists disagree expressing anger see company attempt purchase innocence association 'm outraged company is portraying heart american culture political freedom fact 's killer says michael pertschuk former chairman federal trade commission tobacco-industry critic be treated medellin drug mafia not founding fathers mr. pertschuk adds new commercial dovetails perfectly major aspects philip morris political strategy include trying protect print advertising invoking first amendment wooing blacks portraying protector civil rights commercial features others voice martin luther king jr. slain civil rights leader many marketers say philip morris approach be effective agree ads implied smoking message is unmistakable is clever subliminal advertising really says smokers have rights too says al ries chairman trout ries inc. greenwich conn. marketing strategy firm is designed get wagons circle defend smoking franchise richard winger partner boston consulting group adds 's very popular drape flag days do same time send message supports business 's brilliant rjr nabisco inc. american brands inc. say have plans follow philip morris lead indeed rjr nabisco is currently fire having sent 80-second videotapes touting now brand consumers smoke american brands carltons criticism philip morris corporate campaign runs little risk getting yanked tube are n't showing james madison taking puff lighting says laurence tribe professor constitutional law harvard university are trying do is borrow legitimacy bill rights