prime minister lee kuan yew singapore leader asia leading statesmen years recently announced intention retire next year not necessarily end influence prime minister hair is thinning gray face has perpetual pallor nonetheless continues display energy precision thought willingness say publicly most other asian leaders dare say only privately 66-year-old mr. lee recently spent hour discussing state asia world journal reporters plainly furnished wood-paneled office interview did not touch singapore domestic affairs skipping personal pleasantries mr. lee picked up exactly left off several months earlier government crackdown china had warned orthodox leadership beijing feared plurality views excerpts follow china turmoil is very unhappy scene said took zhao ziyang former premier party chief years build team economists understood western economies work now team is part exile part being rusticated part missing rebuilding team mr. lee predicted take years 's very sad china asia china have been good engine growth not just hong kong taiwan japan korea rest asia similarities china soviet union important particulars soviets are different chinese are already industrialized problem is inefficiency industrial economy chinese problem is much greater industrialize begin asked soviets chinese officials n't day face similar conflict desire liberalize economically yet retain political control mr. lee said think soviets face deeper dilemma have been more blinkers chinese mean keeping people cut off outside world mikhail gorbachev said is ahead china leaders awareness world think soviet peoples are more introverted chinese regardless said still believes soviet union falling far short efficiency western economy well manage improve considerably asia-pacific prosperity america keep present situation markets open years adjustments japan grow not cut back so too korea taiwan hong kong singapore asean australia new zealand then years economies countries be totally restructured be able almost sustain growth such arrangement benefit said europeans come in benefit too 's not zero-sum game asked possibility greater economic cooperation asia-pacific nations be discussed nov. ministerial meeting canberra mr. lee said goal is have free open world trading system asian bloc is n't intended said 's not possible u.s.-japan relations 'm encouraged think earlier strident notes struck u.s. commerce secretary robert mosbacher u.s. trade representative carla hills have been more rounded believe u.s. is becoming more patient circumspect said 's total relationship is important total relationship mr. lee sees is flow dollars u.s. fund deficits investments japanese are making u.s. order satisfy american demand american products consumed america be made as much possible america americans japanese technology capital japan recent political turbulence mr. lee said mean japan slow market adjustments be more timorous tackling own voters opening up more agricultural imports america hurting farmers u.s. military presence asia asked offer allow american military use facilities singapore help preserve america presence region bases philippines said have done is make easier philippines continue host american bases being said are lackeys imperialists only ones asia southeast asia are willing share political burden being host america imperial power think is n't such great burden carries stigma are prepared do u.s.-philippine relations 's such mixed-up relationship going back history really do not understand is filipinos feel so passionately involved father figure want dispose yet need just do n't understand relationships british are totally different lorded did good did even more good let japanese came down world war ii do n't feel down done in show british serials television network read books mean is normal adult relationship filipinos americans talk 's so much passion filipino manhood being diminished result being squatted americans so on occasional englishman tries put airs let pass 's just comic try pretend 're still master race mr. lee added filipinos are making very difficult u.s. military presence last years military alternatives u.s. pulls back soviets already are present suppose sooner later japanese have fill large part gap naval side maybe chinese maybe even indians economic consequences diminished u.s. presence america is only major power recent history has used military might sustain system enables participants equally benefit provider security taking royalties asked so few nations seem share views america said many people see way have just taken granted cambodia let assume former cambodian leader prince norodom sihanouk does press wants do joins up vietnamese-backed cambodian leader hun sen is trouble sihanouk hun sen knock khmer rouge still supported china n't is way forward get khmer rouge part process elections lose then expect china stop aid let put bluntly chinese not be seen have made use khmer rouge then discard ms. house is vice president dow jones international group mr. wain is editor asian wall street journal