u.s. is required notify foreign dictators knows coup plans likely endanger lives government officials said notification policy was part set guidelines handling coups outlined secret exchange letters reagan administration senate intelligence committee existence guidelines has become known president bush disclosed privately republican senators white house meeting last monday officials familiar meeting said mr. bush cited policy example sort congressional requirements administration contends contribute failure such covert actions month futile effort oust panamanian dictator manuel noriega according officials mr. bush even read senators selections highly classified letter committee white house discussing guidelines said president conceded notification requirement did n't affect decision lend only minor support month panama coup effort notification was ever considered officials said apparently u.s. did n't think coup plotters intended kill mr. noriega merely sought imprison 's more administration congressional officials hint notification requirement is likely be dropped guidelines coup attempts are being rewritten panel white house rewriting was launched meeting mr. bush intelligence committee leaders oct. few days meeting president complained rules however disclosure guidelines first reported last night nbc news is already being interpreted capitol hill unfair effort pressure congress has reopened bitter wrangling white house congress is responsible failure oust mr. noriega more broadly difficulties carrying covert activities abroad statement issued office committee chairman sen. david boren d. okla. charged disclosure is part continuing effort shift criticism failure recent coup attempt panama statement added someone has regrettably chosen selectively summarize portions highly classified correspondence branches government not only does come close violation law violates trust have worked develop sen. boren said 's time stop bickering work together develop clear appropriate policy help country future 've invited president send suggestions committee republican sen. william cohen maine panel vice chairman said disclosure text torn out context is pretext is unfair white house are leaking present evidence selective fashion sen. boren said committee n't defend making documents public violate classification rules chairman other committee members stressed notification guideline was n't imposed white house meddling congress instead congressional administration officials agreed grew talks coup-planning panama were initiated administration july stretched last october guideline was n't law joint interpretation u.s. operate foreign coups light longstanding presidential order banning u.s. role assassinations fact yesterday administration congress were still differing had been agreed administration official said notification was required even u.s. gets wind somebody else coup plans seem likely endanger dictator life congressional source close panel said rule only covered coup plans directly involving u.s notification guideline was n't carried month coup attempt administration officials argue have led hesitation uncertainty part u.s. intelligence military operatives panama senior administration official called guideline outrageous said make u.s. operatives reluctant even listen coup plans fear get legal trouble issue came head last year officials recalled partly reagan administration had sought unsuccessfully win committee approval funding new panama coup efforts addition administration congressional officials said need guidelines coups assassinations was partly spurred white house desire avoid nasty overseas surprises election campaign assassination ban is white house order congress never voted intelligence committees exercise influence interpretation last week central intelligence agency director william webster publicly called congress provide new interpretations assassination order permit u.s. more freedom act coups administration has reacted criticism mishandled latest coup attempt seeking blame congress restrictions white house said have hampered freedom action however last week mr. webster top cia deputies said congressional curbs had n't hampered spy agency role coup attempt panama nevertheless administration criticisms appeared have made headway sens. boren cohen oct. meeting president men agreed rewrite guidelines changing basic assassination ban clear ambiguities have hampered u.s. encouragement coups anti-american leaders new argument notification guideline however sour atmosphere cooperation existed gerald f. seib contributed article