more year losing accounts watching reputation slide ogilvy mather new york office hired top creative executive flashy chiat\ creative head ogilvy unit london-based wpp group named bill hamilton top creative post new york mr. hamilton had been executive vice president creative head chiat\ new york office known funky work arrow shirts nynex yellow pages anne klein ii ogilvy succeeds norman berry left agency june now plans return parent company wpp said lee clow agency president chief creative director fill acting new york creative director naming mr. hamilton successor possibly successors next few weeks mr. hamilton faces daunting task reviving ogilvy stagnant new york office just few months ago maxwell house yanked account office following loss last year hallmark account office has won just single piece new business tiny one year new business wins were n't substantial last year either office is suffering dead battery alan gottesman analyst painewebber puts be turned says ai n't easy 's been parked snowdrift very long time new york office is just many ogilvy outposts plenty are performing well is largest most visible billings 's bigger most entire agencies has won praise creative work especially american express has n't been able attract substantial new business ogilvy last spring hired michael lesser lowe marschalk head new york operations mr. lesser has n't had strong creative leader work industry executives generally lauded move bring mr. hamilton saying office needs kick outside questioned be culture clash buttoned-up ogilvy mr. hamilton 11-year veteran freewheeling no-walls-no-doors culture mr. hamilton presided other things weird u.b.u. reebok campaign ogilvy creates more-mainstream ads clients including american express seagram mattel interview mr. hamilton said culture clash is part agenda think want infusion different attitude go about communicating advantages certain client added certain amount chaos is very good agencies said hopes months be playing football halls afternoon mr. hamilton talked broadly changes like make ogilvy is few american agencies successfully use british account planning method ogilvy attempted briefly largely unsuccessfully mr. hamilton hopes ultimately bring account planning executive research background represents consumer working closely creative account executives mr. hamilton also said also bring veterans non-new york offices mr. hamilton accepted job repeated discussions not just mr. lesser wpp group chief executive officer martin sorrell has taken hands-on approach acquisition probably n't have accepted job had not been combination mike lesser martin said 've always been intrigued things people say n't be done most wags pundits world say 's pretty tough stuff turn agency 's been going direction long time said do n't think issue is turning think 's getting back was years ago are pockets brilliance there now kraft taps margeotes kraft general foods group has asked margeotes fertitta weiss small new york agency try hand creative work new product kraft general foods spokesman said margeotes has been given assignment do development work venture project executives close glenview ill.-based food giant said work is new coffee beverage product currently development margeotes clients include godiva maccabee beer has had string new business wins recently picked ad accounts haagen-dazs newsday number jewelry lines crystal brands separately kraft general foods spokesman said selected d'arcy masius benton bowles new york handle sealtest free non-fat ice cream account executives estimated account is worth about account had been handled mccann-erickson ad notes lintas layoffs about people were laid lintas ceco communications subsidiary warren mich. tuesday dick o'connor chairman chief executive lintas:campbell-ewald said office is n't growing expected