kemper financial services inc. charging program trading is ruining stock market cut big wall street firms doing stock-trading business move is biggest salvo yet renewed outcry program trading kemper putting money millions dollars commissions generates year mouth is kemper corp. unit other critics complain program trading causes wild swings stock prices such tuesday oct. has increased chances market crashes past months several firms including discount broker charles schwab co. sears roebuck co. dean witter reynolds inc. unit have attacked program trading major market evil several big securities firms backed off program trading few months crash most led morgan stanley co. moved back in earlier year most volatile form program trading is index arbitrage rapid-fire computer-guided buying selling stocks offset opposite trades stock-index futures options object is capture profits fleeting price discrepancies futures options stocks index arbitrage recently has accounted half program trading new york stock exchange last month program trading accounted shares day record % big board average daily volume tuesday afternoon kemper told bear stearns co. general electric co. kidder peabody co. unit morgan stanley oppenheimer co. no longer do business commitment index arbitrage officials firms confirmed kemper officials declined identify firms acknowledged long-simmering dispute securities firms said list brokers n't do business be lengthened months ahead 've been opposed index arbitrage long time said stephen b. timbers chief investment officer kemper manages including stocks index arbitrage does n't work scares natural buyers stock mr. timbers explained 's not totally convinced index arbitrage changes overall level stock market said intraday basis has major effects 've talked proponents index arbitrage told cool 're ruining market said too bad so finally said 're not going do business kemper also blasted big board ignoring interests individual institutional holders new york stock exchange has vested interests big member securities firms cloud objectivity mr. timbers said has never been interested think big board also has terrible communication problem individual investors added small investors perceive big operators dominate market said thomas o'hara chairman national association investors head exchange individual investors advisory committee set up crash impression 've got is love do away program trading exchange n't do said big board chairman john j. phelan said recent interview has inclination eliminate program trading said market volatility disturbs exchange do is slow process using circuit breakers shock absorbers mr. timbers countered mere fact put circuit breakers is admission problems morgan stanley kidder peabody biggest program trading firms staunchly defend strategies continue believe position 've taken is reasonable morgan stanley official said stop index arbitrage market is stress have recently said citing oct. earlier week michael carpenter president chief executive officer kidder peabody said recent interview do n't think index arbitrage has negative impact market whole according lawrence eckenfelder securities industry analyst prudential-bache securities inc. kemper is first firm make major statement program trading added having just firm do is n't going mean hill beans prompts others consider same thing then become much more important