senate democrats favoring cut capital-gains tax have decided pressure leaders not offer own proposal placing obstacle path president bush legislative priority core group so democratic senators has been working scenes develop proposal reduce tax gain sale assets plan was complete finishing touches was talk be unveiled as early yesterday senate majority leader george mitchell d. maine vigorous opponent capital-gains tax cut called group meet wednesday night again yesterday sen. mitchell urged desist afterward leaders dissident democrats relented said n't offer own proposal had planned decision is setback president bush needs support democrats pass tax cut democratic-controlled senate having proposal sponsored democrats have given president advantage having only republican measure makes task harder still sen. bob packwood r. ore. lead sponsor republican capital-gains amendment predicted tax cut be enacted year said clear majority senators back tax reduction ultimately be enough senators overcome procedural hurdle democratic leadership erect sen. mitchell buoyed victory fellow democrats strongly disagreed mr. mitchell has been predicting president initiative fail year yesterday interview added democrats decision increases likelihood capital-gains tax cut not pass year mr. mitchell first victory came last week senate passed deficit-reduction bill did n't contain capital-gains provision vote made unlikely capital-gains tax cut be included final bill now being drafted house senate negotiators house version bill does include tax cut now republican leaders are concentrating attaching capital-gains amendment other bill perhaps measure raising federal borrowing limit second tax bill follow heels deficit-reduction legislation help lay groundwork fight president bush plans early next week meet white house democratic senators favor cutting capital-gains tax are undecided issue president apparently have only bill push sen. packwood least dissident democrats plan support want offer additional amendments improve bill comes floor said sen. david boren d. okla. leader democrats packwood plan expected allow individuals exclude income % gain sale capital asset held more year exclusion rise percentage points year asset was held reached maximum % years exclusion apply assets sold oct. alternative taxpayers chose reduce gains inflation index corporations top tax rate sale assets held more years be cut % current top rate % rate gradually decline as little % corporate assets held years packwood plan also include proposal designed sen. william roth r. del. create new tax benefits individual retirement accounts roth plan create new non-deductible ira money be withdrawn tax-free not only retirement also purchase first home education expenses medical expenses current iras be rolled new iras be subject tax penalty