federal reserve chairman alan greenspan told congress fed wipe inflation causing recession said doing so inflict short-term pain require reducing federal deficit sharply mr. greenspan said other fed governors endorse bill rep. stephen neal d. n.c. require fed pursue policies aimed eliminating inflation years deadline is attainable have costs mr. greenspan told rep. neal monetary policy subcommittee fed chief opposed bill introduced reps. lee hamilton d. ind. byron dorgan d. n.d. other things require fed disclose monetary policy moves immediately increase outside scrutiny fed responding questions mr. greenspan played reports tension fed treasury exchange-rate policy seem be interpreted great conflicts are relatively minor issues tactics said did n't elaborate fed is n't enthusiastic treasury efforts bring value dollar intervention foreign-exchange markets treasury is frustrated fed reluctance cut interest rates pull dollar value mr. greenspan said inflation rate currently % be brought levels are close putting economy recession do suspect be modest loss economic output other words economic growth be lower unemployment be higher few years mr. greenspan has repeatedly said fed goal is reduce inflation added losses are incurred pursuing price stability surely be more made increased output thereafter warned fed efforts conquer inflation fail produce major financial crunch are accompanied significant reduction federal deficit causes government borrow heavily rep. neal bill originally called fed reduce inflation rate percentage point year years maintain inflation rate thereafter altered wording win mr. greenspan endorsement even so bill is given little chance passage reps. hamilton dorgan also have altered bill dropping proposal add treasury secretary 12-member fed committee makes monetary policy instead bill simply calls twice-a-year meetings committee top administration officials even met mr. greenspan disapproval subject fed more intensely political perspective risk bending monetary policy away long-term strategic goals hamilton-dorgan proposals represents only small step together erode fed independence mr. greenspan said mr. greenspan also said favors cutting capital-gains taxes sound economic policy oppose move undo political compromise embodied tax reform act result higher marginal income tax rates