william d. forrester president u.s.-u.s.s.r. trade economic council has warning u.s. companies trying do business soviet union 's extremely complex market have be prepared make big commitment mr. forrester says are not trying encourage everyone undeterred such words caution corporate america is flocking moscow lured huge untapped market mikhail gorbachev attempt overhaul soviet economy doing business russians once pursuit handful hardened veterans has become goal such major companies general motors corp. federal express corp. procter gamble co. as well cluster smaller firms reflecting new-found interest more u.s. companies are taking part moscow exhibition organized mr. forrester trade group u.s. interest be big growing difficulties have stymied deals past show sign abating old problems non-convertible currency inpenetrable bureaucracy western business executives now grapple new complexities linked restructuring soviet economy executives say mr. gorbachev moves break government foreign trade monopoly have created uncertainties as well opportunities changing legislation has opened field thousands inexperienced soviet players promise more deliver foreign firms are finding even manage overcome such hurdles ventures now have be endorsed such unpredictable bodies soviet parliament governments nation republics have go constituents says james h. giffen is spearheading most ambitious attempt u.s. firms break soviet market involving investment more some dozen joint ventures part attempt american trade consortium mr. giffen says spends lot time lobbying growing public fears soviet environment is new factor affecting joint-venture plans past years soviet ministries have been talking international firms including occidental petroleum co. combustion engineering inc. u.s. montedison s.p.a. italy several japanese groups jointly building operating several big petrochemical plants plans have come fire soviet environmentalists officials say many are likely be scaled dropped difficulties mr. gorbachev remains committed increasing foreign trade political as well economic reasons u.s. companies are top priorities point underscored spending hours walking u.s. trade show last week talking small group u.s. executives afterwards mr. gorbachev appeared impatient big expansion u.s.-soviet trade now amounts meager annually u.s. ranks fourth countries have concluded joint ventures west germany finland italy according several people present meeting mr. gorbachev also supported idea concluding several commercial accords u.s. possibly next summit meeting president bush judging crush exhibition deprived soviet consumers are more ready u.s. products hundreds people lined day colgate-palmolive co. stand receive free tube toothpaste commodity chronically short supply here unruly crowds rjr nabisco inc. booth almost knocked glass showcase rush get free camel cigarette sticker u.s. products are filtering soviet market emergency import program colgate procter gamble have received big orders toothpaste soap detergents american trade consortium says is planning ship some consumer goods financed bank credits first few months next year current soviet purchasing spree be one-time affair goal most u.s. firms joint ventures remains elusive soviet ruble is n't convertible dollars marks other western currencies companies hope set production facilities here either export goods earn hard currency find soviet goods take counter-trade transaction international competition few soviet goods be sold world markets is heating however shelley m. zeiger entrepreneur new jersey buys soviet porcelain nesting dolls export u.s. says west german companies already have snapped much production items seeking overcome currency problems mr. giffen american trade consortium comprises chevron corp. rjr johnson johnson eastman kodak co. archer-daniels-midland co. has concocted elaborate scheme share dollar earnings largely revenues planned chevron oil project several medical concerns including pfizer inc. hewlett-packard co. colgate abbott laboratories intend pursue similar consortium approach 's hard invest capital here same basis investing other countries says dennis a. sokol president medical service partners inc. is putting medical consortium together u.s. entrepreneurs operate smaller scale group seeks publish u.s.-soviet medical journal conjunction u.s.s.r. ministry health according richard p. mills boston-based official u.s. partner copies quarterly be printed russian next year be financed advertisements u.s. companies simultaneous publication english-language journal containing details soviet medical advancements found market niche mr. mills boasts 's truly entrepreneurial