put phone walk room take deep breaths resist urge call broker sell stocks 's advice most investment professionals friday 190-point drop dow jones industrial average one say sure happen today investment pros are divided stocks perform well badly next months 're nearly unanimous point do n't sell panic investors sold everything crash lived regret even friday plunge dow jones industrial average was % landed oct. years panic selling also was unwise other big declines past crash was followed substantial recovery great depression awful bear market began october massacres were scary did n't lead severe sustained downturns indeed pros see friday plunge further damage occur early week chance bargain hunting has been lot emotional selling presents nice buying opportunity 've got cash says stephen b. timbers chief investment officer chicago-based kemper financial services inc most advisers think immediate course individual investors be stand pat see runaway train says steve janachowski partner san francisco investment advisory firm brouwer janachowski wait train stop even people expect bear market coming months sizable number money managers market pundits do advice is wait market bounce back sell shares gradually rallies best thing individual investors do is just sit tight says marshall b. front executive vice president head investment counseling stein roe farnham inc. chicago-based investment counseling firm manages hand mr. front says be misguided sell classic panic other hand 's not necessarily good time jump buy is emotion right now emotion starts run run further anyone anticipates said 's more prudent wait see things stabilize roger ibbotson professor finance yale university head market information firm ibbotson associates inc. says real advice be just ride generally is n't wise be stock market mr. ibbotson thinks week is going be roller-coaster week also thinks is good week consider buying john snyder former president los angeles chapter national association investors corp. organization investment clubs individual investors says fellow club members did n't sell crash see reason sell now 're dedicated long-term investors not traders says understand panics euphoria hope take advantage panics buy stocks plunge camp investment pros sees happened friday opportunity next days weeks say investors look stocks buy friday action was old-fashioned panic says alfred goldman director technical market analysis a.g. edwards sons st. louis stocks were being thrown windows price advice be there basket catching james craig portfolio manager denver-based janus fund has industry better track records started buying friday plunge stocks such hershey foods corp. wal-mart stores inc. american international group inc. federal national mortgage association became such bargains n't resist says mr. craig expects pick more shares today be chaotic first not be buying thought were headed real trouble says argues stocks are reasonably valued now interest rates are lower now fall mr. front stein roe suggests buying concentrate stocks have lagged market side stocks have been beaten lot more market correction firm favors selected computer drug pollution-control stocks other investment pros are more pessimistic say investors sell stocks not necessarily right away many stress selling be orderly gradual done stock prices are rallying thursday william fleckenstein seattle money manager used futures contracts personal account place bet broad market averages decline thinks underlying inflation rate is % % far higher most people suppose pension accounts manages mr. fleckenstein has raised cash positions invested gold natural gas stocks partly inflation hedge thinks government officials are terrified let recession start government corporate personal debt levels are so high thinks government err side rekindled inflation result mr. fleckenstein says think ball game 's investors are face bear market david m. jones vice president aubrey g. lanston co. recommends treasury securities years maturity says oct. employment report showing slower economic growth severe weakening manufacturing sector is warning sign investors strategy investors want stay hedge bets is buy put options individual stocks own broad market index put option gives holder right not obligation sell stock stock index specified price strike price option expires insurance is worthwhile depends cost option cost premium tends get fat times crisis thus buying puts big market slide be expensive way hedge risk prices puts generally did n't soar friday example premium percentage stock price certain puts eli lilly co. moved % thursday close only % friday close even shares dropped more put-option prices zoom trading resumes today 's hard generalize reasonable price puts investors keep mind paying too much average annual return stock holdings long-term is % % year return % is considered praiseworthy paying say % insurance losses takes deep bite return james a. white tom herman contributed article see related story gurus views vary crash not seen wsj oct.