e. robert wallach former personal legal adviser ex-attorney general edwin meese was sentenced years prison fined role wedtech corp. scandal mr. wallach years old was convicted august racketeering conspiring commit fraud charges involved payments got wedtech return promising use influence mr. meese other federal officials behalf now-defunct defense contractor mr. wallach attorney gary naftalis described defendant relatively minor player wedtech political-corruption case u.s. district judge richard owen strongly disagreed sentencing federal court new york judge owen told mr. wallach sold federal office integrity federal office even got office money was allegedly paid mr. wallach anticipation being appointed top position justice department appointment was never made wedtech minority-owned company new york city south bronx accounted payments consulting fees services were actually provided government charged mr. wallach co-defendants w. franklyn chinn r. kent london were also sentenced mr. chinn formerly financial adviser mr. meese was sentenced years fined mr. london mr. chinn worked financial consultant wedtech was sentenced years fined defendants remain free bail pending appeals have serve third sentences being eligible parole lawyers defendants have said plan appeal issuing sentences judge owen criticized mr. wallach host alleged ethical legal improprieties had nothing do wedtech case most involved mr. meese judge also suggested mr. wallach tried influence jury august verdict was being read halfway verdict mr. london mother had seizure collapsed front row courtroom court officers sought get help woman judge said mr. wallach charged jury screamed see have done judge said did n't understand mr. wallach experienced trial lawyer commit such outburst said mr. wallach have hoped jury be unable continue verdict sentencing mr. wallach blamed wedtech woes longtime friendship mr. meese said prosecutors were looking man ed meese wedtech have gotten ed meese have been fulfillment dreams defendants also face stiff forfeiture penalties were convicted racketeer influenced corrupt organizations law judge ordered defendants turn money earned racketeering enterprise mr. wallach amount is mr. london forfeit mr. chinn forfeit together mr. chinn mr. london jointly forfeit additional mr. naftalis said mr. wallach had been financially devastated wedtech scandal according corrected pre-sentencing report mr. wallach currently has negative net worth teamsters elections be supervised court-appointed officer u.s. district judge david edelstein new york ruled elections officer play extensive role phases international brotherhood teamsters election top union officials government hailed ruling major victory quest achieve broad reforms union particularly election top officials rank file teamsters counsel james grady claimed power bestowed court-appointed officer was departure terms union agreement government earlier year mr. grady added fund type supervision judge edelstein described cost union least march teamsters agreed settlement civil racketeering charges brought u.s. attorney office manhattan suit government claimed organized crime figures had routinely picked top union officials settlement terms union leaders agreed court-appointed administrator investigator elections official oversee union activities years also union agreed pay expenses related officers oversight first progress report filed weeks ago administrator frederick b. lacey revealed disagreements scope such oversight interpretation settlement financial support judge ruling mr. grady said gave up right trial terms agreement believe anything modifies terms is completely inappropriate judge's comments homosexual murder victims are scrutinized special master appointed texas supreme court received evidence yesterday comments made dallas district judge jack hampton wake murder trial december judge hampton sentenced 18-year-old defendant years state prison killing homosexual men city park judge was then quoted dallas times herald referring victims queers saying guys n't have been killed had n't been cruising streets picking teen-age boys comments touched furor dallas gay community prompted several complaints judge hampton state commission judicial conduct commission remove judge hampton bench act reviewing findings be submitted weeks special master robert r. murray san antonio hearing yesterday judge hampton defense team included former dallas county district attorney henry wade former u.s. attorney jim rolfe accused times herald reporter misquoting judge defense lawyers also argued was appropriate judge consider murder victims were committing crime time were killed bill hornung general counsel judicial-conduct commission said defense team was sidestepping focus inquiry judge hampton violated judicial ethics commenting public motion new trial was pending place judge comment explain rationale sentencing is bench not privacy little impromptu press conference mr. hornung said senate judiciary committee gets legislation limit death-penalty appeals sen. joseph biden d. del. committee chairman proposed legislation carry out streamlining death-penalty appeals federal court was proposed last month special task force appointed chief justice u.s. william rehnquist sen. biden proposed legislation comply law passed last year requiring senate expedite consideration proposals made task force led retired supreme court justice lewis powell task force proposed states provide lawyers death-row inmates civil post-conviction lawsuits called habeas corpus cases challenge constitutionality convictions exchange number such lawsuits inmate file be sharply curtailed allowing states greater certainty being able execute death row chief justice rehnquist sent report congress majority federal judges policy-making judicial conference complained had n't been given chance consider recommendations legislation introduced sen. biden adopts same approach powell report state-provided lawyers exchange limiting appeals senator bill eases number restrictions leslie harris american civil liberties union spokeswoman criticized powell proposals said biden legislation is more moderate thoughtful approach group likely oppose apple computer inc. former general counsel john p. karalis joined phoenix ariz. law firm brown bain mr. karalis specialize corporate law international law 110-lawyer firm joining apple served general counsel sperry corp