not great cases make bad-law justice holmes asserted doubt great confirmation hearings turn nominee response great cases make bad judicial history ethan bronner battle justice bork nomination shook america norton pages is spirited narrative nastiest hearings done journalistic verve flawed legal philosophy book amply justifies subtitle title is dubious shook america was not battle justice naked power army judicial activists rolled judge had demonized basic structure style book is novelistic piquant character portrayal hard-wire action devious intrigue sort more likely be encountered washington docudrama constitutional history mr. bronner seems believe hearings have gone way doubt given democratic frustration reagan victories court appointments contingency plans place mr. bork paper trail vulnerable writings was pretty clear judge bork never stood much chance being confirmed mr. bronner says smell raw meat was air perhaps won mr. bork attackers come more vividly defenders ralph neas was organizing genius whipping conglomerate pressure groups irresistible attacking force harvard laurence tribe was constitutional heavy laying legal strategies senators witnesses follow was ted kennedy scored most effectively searing portrayal robert bork america parade imaginary horribles follow logically claimed positions mr. bork had taken space decades sen. kennedy never mind dubious credentials moral high ground emoted brilliantly add others republican sen. arlen specter pennsylvania engaged nominee verbal contest aimed showing mr. bork was willing stretch constitution area free speech remaining rigid others achieved good media play enabled sen. specter others vote mr. bork conscience further ammunition came left legal theorist ronald dworkin new york review books painted picture constitutional zombie willfully reading personal prejudices constitution particularly area original intent charge being mainstream legal thought gravely undercut mr. bork scholarly standing leaving bleeding platform nomination still have been salvaged number democratic moderates south southwest had broken party lines democratic sen. bennett johnson louisiana reminded little band anti-bork blacks women furnish margin punish next senate elections demographics converged mainstream demonizing seal robert bork fate upshot mr. bork opponents chose battlefield held kept smooth confirmation anthony kennedy percenter only slightly less supportive judicial restraint mr. bork democrats have won battle lost war upshot however was chilling message bork hearings sent judicial culture supreme court draws talent word went forth law school federal court ambitions travel safe constitutional journey paper trail bite tongue pen unfortunately author simply does n't supply philosophical frame sustain reportorial talents has too readily swallowed case activist law school culture probing more deeply doctrine judicial restraint have found long history going back great decisions justice holmes discover also alexander bickel subtle constitutional scholar mr. bork closest friend yale influence judge goes well mr. bronner reporting still long view robert bork constitutional thinker be spotty strength lies majoritarian doctrine keeps court clear transient group pressures leaves most decisions democracy elected legislatures executives unfortunately mr. bork failed distinguish such pressures emergence great issues critical society be settled judicially is cohere question segregated schools brown board education was issue time abortion has become best left line supreme court decisions rather chaos state legislatures reflective growing consensus americans clearly wishes apply right privacy contraceptive matters decided griswold case abortion as well understand mr. bork fear new right privacy become intolerably stretched supreme court composed men women realism guts sense limits be able manage is certain is americans allow happening degrading bork confirmation circus be peril mr. lerner is writer historian living new york