law firms have feasted grown revenue mergers acquisitions work are feeling squeeze work declines disarray junk-bond market began last month credit crunch campeau corp. failure banks deliver financing leveraged buy-out united airlines parent ual corp. has reverberated nation largest law firms is still too early tell dearth takeover activity is only temporary many lawyers say firms are bracing lower revenue merger work has been so lucrative past much work was done higher fees other legal work was not generally billed hour deals take longer complete are fewer do n't bill same kind premium deals took few weeks start finish says lawyer large new york firm 're planning rip-roaring year next year be story said robert freedman partner simpson thacher bartlett 're settling down less active period lawyers such firms sullivan cromwell willkie farr gallagher wachtell lipton rosen katz fried frank harris shriver jacobson say too have experienced significant slowdown particularly past few weeks everyone is waiting see deals be done sensible prices money is available said jack nusbaum co-chairman willkie farr 's hard know right now change is fundamental cyclical lawyers say slump more obvious recent weeks began earlier year dennis block partner new york firm weil gotshal manges said first months year hostile offers were launched compared first months 's more said transactions are taking much longer time conclude many fall apart lack financing more stringent scrutiny state courts lawyers also say erratic stock market uncertain financing conditions have sharply reduced number lucrative big deals likely be proposed still lawyers say mergers slowdown has n't affected foreign buyers as much domestic ones just took floor london offices said joseph flom new york firm skadden arps slate meagher flom davis polk wardwell also said international clients are keeping mergers acquisitions partners busy european companies are looking buy american ones said henry king managing partner firm question is things people are looking actually surface live transactions light current market conditions murder threat charged haas securities corp stock-manipulation trial trial former haas securities chairman eugene laff defense accused government chief witnesses threatening kill mr. laff mr. laff attorney john lang filed memorandum asking trial record include secretly taped conversation witness henry lorin told haas stockbroker mr. laff be killed conversation was taped federal investigators mr. lang said was effort get mr. lorin implicate mr. laff opening arguments last week federal court new york mr. lang told jury mr. lorin was real master criminal stock manipulation mr. laff knew nothing march mr. laff was indicted counts conspiracy mail securities fraud obstructing investigation securities exchange commission government has charged mr. lorin mr. laff were part conspiracy maintain prices certain stocks artificially high prices mr. lorin stock promoter pleaded guilty stock-manipulation charges april agreed cooperate government investigation mr. laff cross examination mr. lorin mr. lang read transcripts conversation was taped oct. stanley aslanian haas broker agreed carry hidden microphone conversation also has pleaded guilty conspiracy commit securities violations stock manipulation agreed cooperate according transcript mr. lorin said mr. laff be killed mr. aslanian told information given mr. laff conspirator jeopardize stock scheme mr. lorin then repeated threat mr. aslanian urged not say such things parts transcript read mr. lang was unclear exactly mr. lorin feared happen asked copy transcript mr. lang said judge thomas p. griesa had instructed not release memorandum trial mr. lang asked mr. lorin had been so upset considered killing mr. laff is n't true were so worked framing mr. laff crime was least planned mr. lorin responded mr. lang asked mr. lorin had taken steps have mr. laff killed witness again said peter lieb assistant u.s. attorney prosecuting case declined comment trial trustee monitored settlement payments dalkon shield claimants quits stephen a. saltzburg trustees appointed monitor payments women injured dalkon shield intrauterine contraceptive resigned citing personal reasons mr. saltzburg teaches evidence university virginia school law was deputy assistant attorney general u.s. justice department august submitted resignation earlier month federal judge robert r. merhige jr. richmond va judge merhige is overseeing bankruptcy-law reorganization a.h. robins co. company manufactured shield letter monday mr. saltzburg judge said reluctantly accept resignation dalkon shield claimants trust was established part a.h. robins bankruptcy-reorganization plan resolve injury claims arising use shield american home products corp. proposes acquire company remaining trustees claimants trust have days nominate successor mr. saltzburg judge merhige make appointment chicago law firm recruits american express co. vice president coffield ungaretti harris slavin brought in a. menell partner washington d.c. office opened oct. past years mr. menell years old served vice president government affairs american express previously was staff director counsel senate committee banking housing urban affairs other lawyer office is partner robert a. macari firm legislative director philadelphia law firm ballard spahr andrews ingersoll said partners have joined business finance department john ake former vice-president charge legal compliance american capital management research inc. houston join ballard spahr corporate-securities practice kent walker former partner philadelphia law firm mesirov gelman jaffe cramer jamieson specialize antitrust real estate mergers acquisitions richard l. sherman advise midsized businesses mr. sherman is former deputy general counsel smithkline beckman corp. philadelphia now smithkline beecham plc london