's intense debate south korean president roh tae woo inner circle scheduled speech wednesday joint meeting congress give english korean be more effective u.s. politicians public english president foreign policy advisers argue counter domestic political aides hurt mr. roh home seems be pandering americans u.s. politicians policy-makers do well remember such backhome pressures south korean president prepare important series meetings week u.s.-south korean relations economic security terms are most critical stage korean war most americans think south korea still conjure images war years popularized tv series m\*a\*s\*h south korea no longer is backwater third world country dynamic growing economy is u.s. seventh-largest trading partner moreover korean peninsula remains strategic focal points east asia are u.s. troops stationed there country is political crossroads now struggles new experiment democracy south korea is critically important now economically terms security says sen. richard lugar r. ind. former chairman senate foreign relations committee unfortunately many americans do n't think much korea miracle economic growth development democracy imperfect is are very important united states major topic mr. roh visit be human rights due process still is denied south korea few months kim dae jung major opposition leader was detained interrogated hours security thugs just pope john paul ii did seoul last week president bush members congress tell mr. roh uncertain terms kind behavior is unacceptable context is important south korea had free election last year liberals lost only n't unite candidate moreover is violent anti-u.s. minority south korea demonstrated handful radical students broke u.s. ambassador donald gregg residence seoul friday vandalized ambassador wife were unharmed mr. roh former general member repressive previous regime has made impressive strides supporting democratic values institutions is n't perfect democracy 's far cry authoritarian rule only few years thing has n't changed south korea is paranoia north korea several people are being prosecuted making unapproved visits communist north visit panmunjom constant tension communists joint u.s.-south korean forces is palpable makes easier understand feelings sometimes u.s. politicians forget north korea country population only has armed force troops sixth largest world winds change are blowing much communist bloc have n't reached pyongyang as long continues pose real threat u.s. critics go slow demands reduce troop levels south korea major topic mr. roh calls administration congressional figures week be economics trade south korea hardly is fault trade frictions u.s. most experts administration think commerce secretary robert mosbacher got exactly wrong few months declared south korea is more open economically japan agricultural products particular everything beef apples koreans have succumbed domestic political pressures protectionism yet earlier year south korea promised make real concessions investment laws other trade impediments enabled country avoid being targeted unfair trade partner tough super section u.s. trade act separately result revaluation won other measures almost trade surplus south koreans enjoyed u.s last year be cut year moreover just few days national assembly governing opposition parties unusual alliance passed resolution calling gradual opening south korean agricultural markets 's appropriate u.s. officials keep hammering more open trade policies u.s. trade representative carla hills did seoul last week 's also sometimes tendency american political circles pick especially south korea frustration inability do much japan 's counterproductive most importantly 's time american policy-makers better appreciate economic future rests more asia seoul as well tokyo anyplace else u.s. always stand interests 's essential u.s. officials have appreciation politics history allies upper echelons roh tae woo government 're still buzzing commerce secretary mosbacher trip south korea earlier year seems learned first time south korea had been occupied decades japan