interprovincial pipe line co. said delay proposed two-step canadian-dollar expansion system canada output crude oil is shrinking interprovincial canada biggest oil pipeline operator major transporter crude u.s. said revised industry forecasts indicate canadian oil output total about barrels day % lower previous estimate canadian crude production averaged about barrels day first half about % level capability existing fields deliver oil is dropping oil exploration activity is also down dramatically many producers shift emphasis natural gas said ronald watkins vice president government industry relations interprovincial parent interhome energy inc mr. watkins said volume interprovincial system is down about % january is expected fall further making expansion unnecessary perhaps mid-1990s has been swing pendulum back gas side said many canada oil gas producers say outlook natural gas is better is oil have shifted exploration development budgets accordingly number active drilling rigs canada is down % year ago number completed oil wells is down more due increasing focus gas exploration said robert feick manager crude oil calgary independent petroleum association canada industry group mr. watkins said main reason production decline is shrinking output light crude mature conventional fields western canada interprovincial transports about % crude produced western canada almost % interprovincial total volume consists light crude nearly crude oil canada exports u.s. is transported interprovincial system main line runs edmonton major u.s. canadian cities great lakes region including chicago buffalo toronto montreal canada current oil exports u.s. total about barrels day about % net u.s. crude imports said john lichtblau president new york-based petroleum industry research foundation ranks canada fourth-largest source imported crude saudi arabia nigeria mexico mr. lichtblau said canada declining crude output combined fast-shrinking output u.s. crude help intensify u.s. reliance oil overseas particularly middle east 's very much growing concern something is inevitable learn live said mr. lichtblau stressed delay interprovincial proposed expansion n't increase u.s. dependence offshore crude however canadian imports are limited case canada falling output terms proposed two-step expansion have required regulatory approval interprovincial intended add barrels day additional capacity system beginning modest expansion system currently has capacity barrels day