b.a.t industries plc delay aspects defensive restructuring plan including sale saks fifth avenue marshall field units wake current upheaval financial markets company officials said british conglomerate planning own defensive restructuring fight takeover bid anglo-french financier sir james goldsmith intends press ahead extraordinary shareholder vote today clear way value-boosting measures anything gyrations world stock markets b.a.t share price last friday sharp wall street sell-off have increased likelihood shareholder approval restructuring analysts several big institutional holders said thank god have deal table said stewart gilchrist director scottish amicable investment managers intends vote roughly % stake favor restructuring investors b.a.t have been roller coaster b.a.t has been london best-performing blue chip past months % % rise financial times 100-share index week b.a.t has been hit harder other big u.k. stocks first market gyrations then tuesday san francisco earthquake leave b.a.t farmers group inc. insurance unit facing big claims b.a.t rose pence cents pence london yesterday late market rally erased 28-pence fall earlier day fight predators b.a.t plans spin assets largely selling such u.s. retailing units marshall field saks floating big paper u.k. retailing business share issues existing holders proceeds help pay planned buy-back % shares % dividend increase think restructuring get required support said michael pacitti analyst london stockbroker ubs phillips drew shareholders effectively support share price clearing share buy-back b.a.t restructuring was never going happen quickly now take longer market upheaval company officials holders analysts previously expected disposals be substantially complete end next year 's first half now say market gyrations delay actions well second half are n't forced sellers do n't have absolute deadline market conditions are truly awful decide is not right time take particular steps said michael prideaux b.a.t spokesman even b.a.t receives approval restructuring company remain play say shareholders analysts situation unfold next months rather new b.a.t be smaller tobacco financial-services hybrid price-earnings ratio more closely reflect lower-growth tobacco business higher-multiple financial-services business holders believe thus b.a.t restructuring only make company more manageable target other corporate predators possibly such acquisitive bidders hanson plc last few days surely slow pace events says scottish amicable mr. gilchrist n't write sir james other potential bidders possible delays sales saks marshall field were expected be block soon crucial christmas season slide second quarter second half analysts estimate sales businesses raise roughly b.a.t is n't predicting postponement units are quality businesses are encouraged breadth inquiries said mr. prideaux delay happen b.a.t does n't get adequate bids said people familiar b.a.t say possible acquirers units include managers retailing chains general cinema corp. is interested bidding saks other potential bidders parts b.a.t u.s. retail unit include dillard department stores inc. may department stores co. limited inc b.a.t has declined identify potential bidders though sir james has said intends mount new bid b.a.t approval u.s. insurance regulators is received jitters prospects junk-bond financing u.s. leverage buy-outs are making investors more skeptical sir james prospects initial offer indicated needed raise as much % takeover financing debt markets market uncertainty also clouds outlook b.a.t attracting premium price u.s. retailing properties finally tuesday california earthquake initially knocked % b.a.t share price london yesterday fears potential claims los angeles-based farmers has substantial portion property casualty exposure california farmers mr. prideaux said is too early quantify level potential claims added b.a.t has expectation material impact farmers