soviet leader mikhail gorbachev wants bring nation reformist press back line blaming contributing many problems faces even suggesting liberal editor resign mr. gorbachev comments made meeting soviet national editors media executives friday indicate growing frustration nation mounting problems according people attended did n't advocate end policy openness made clear press show greater responsibility reporting cut back criticism reforms text remarks has n't been published editors say have instructions be accounts previous such meetings media other groups have been printed sometimes delay several days has given government-controlled media here much greater freedom report criticize mr. gorbachev other soviet leaders still regard newspapers tv important propaganda tools use will according participants meeting soviet journalists were later briefed editors mr. gorbachev blamed press fueling nationwide mood despondency particular complained articles summer openly discussed possibility coup civil war soviet union accused media fueling panic buying goods printing stories impending shortages singled daily izvestia weekly argumenty i fakty also gave stinging criticism yuri afanasyev leading reformist historian has written articles attacking communist party other things mr. gorbachev questioned mr. afanasyev remain party meeting lasted little hours was attended most members ruling politburo was other speaker apart soviet leader attacked were n't given opportunity defend mr. afanasyev is n't editor did n't attend according participants mr. gorbachev was particularly incensed article front page argumenty i fakty month examined popularity members soviet parliament piece was based survey readers letters contained criticism mr. gorbachev newspaper wrote readers assessed role positively negatively said many thanked soviet leader self-control modesty culture ability hear speaker others criticized imposing opinion other deputies giving commentaries many speeches holding elections choice candidate putting pressure voting process maneuvering right left wings parliament paper quoted readers saying has seriously weakened authority soviet leader apparently suggested argumenty i fakty editor vyacheslav starkov resign comment mr. starkov relayed staff has sparked anger bitterness paper mr. starkov has been summoned see kremlin ideology chief vadim medvedev near future discover then is be fired izvestia was criticized front-page article last wednesday took sharp look parliament activities attacked level debate private-sector cooperative movement saying discussion was more riot civilized exchange points view questioned speed parliament was adopting new legislation often minimum debate speaking foreign reporters ivan laptev izvestia editor sought play mr. gorbachev criticism acknowledged paper had been singled out parliament yesterday approved legislation imposes new restrictions cooperative movement enabling local authorities set ceilings prices preventing speculative sale goods short supply prices higher charged state