ripples strike machinists union members boeing co. reached air carriers friday america west airlines announced postpone new service houston delays receiving aircraft seattle jet maker peter otradovec vice president planning phoenix ariz. carrier said interview work stoppage boeing now entering 13th day has caused turmoil scheduling more passengers were booked fly houston america west now be put other airlines mr. otradovec said boeing told america west 757 was supposed get thursday n't be delivered nov. day airline had been planning initiate service houston daily flights including nonstops phoenix nonstop las vegas now routes are n't expected begin jan boeing is also supposed send america west twin-engine aircraft as well year end too are almost certain arrive late point other america west flights including new service san antonio texas newark n.j. palmdale calif. have been affected delays boeing deliveries nevertheless company reaction underscores domino effect huge manufacturer such boeing have other parts economy also is sure help machinists put added pressure company just do n't feel company really stand want prolonged walkout tom baker president machinists district said interview yesterday do n't think customers like very much america west though is smaller airline therefore more affected delayed delivery single plane many competitors be figure american united probably have hard time counting planes fleets not miss mr. otradovec said indeed random check friday did n't seem indicate strike was having much effect other airline operations southwest airlines has boeing 737-300 set delivery end month expects have plane time 's so close completion boeing 's told n't be problem said southwest spokesman spokesman amr corp. said boeing has assured american airlines deliver 757 time later month american is preparing take delivery 757 early december more next year is n't anticipating changes timetable seattle boeing spokesman explained company has been constant communication customers was impossible predict further disruptions be triggered strike meanwhile supervisors non-striking employees have been trying finish some aircraft mostly 747 767 jumbo jets company everett wash. plant were all but completed walkout friday had been delivered fifth plane 747-400 was supposed be flown weekend air china date has yet been set get back bargaining table want make sure know want come said doug hammond federal mediator has been contact sides strike began investment community has been anticipating speedy resolution though boeing stock price was battered rest market friday actually has risen last weeks strength new orders market has taken views labor situation get settled short term things look very rosy boeing long term said howard rubel analyst cyrus j. lawrence inc boeing shares fell friday close composite trading new york stock exchange mr. baker said thinks earliest pact be struck be end month hinting company union resume negotiations as early week still said 's possible strike last considerably longer n't expect immediate resolution anything last week boeing chairman frank shrontz sent striking workers letter saying knowledge boeing offer represents best overall three-year contract major u.s. industrial firm recent history mr. baker called letter company offer % wage increase life pact bonuses very weak added company miscalculated union resolve workers disgust being forced work many hours overtime separate developments talks have broken machinists representatives lockheed corp. calabasas calif. aerospace company union is continuing work expired contract however had planned strike vote next sunday has been pushed indefinitely united auto workers local 1069 represents workers boeing helicopter unit delaware county pa. said agreed extend contract day-by-day basis 10-day notification cancel continues bargaining accord expired yesterday boeing friday said received order martinair holland model 767-300 wide-body jetliners valued total about planes long range versions medium-haul twin-jet be delivered pratt whitney pw4060 engines pratt whitney is unit united technologies inc martinair holland is based amsterdam boeing spokeswoman said delivery date planes is still being worked variety reasons not strike bridget o'brian contributed article