following were yesterday offerings pricings u.s. non-u.s. capital markets terms syndicate manager compiled dow jones capital markets report washington d.c. general obligation tax revenue anticipation notes series due sept. were offered shearson lehman hutton inc shearson is offering notes % securities priced yield % j.p. morgan securities inc. is offering remaining notes notes are rated mig-1 moody investors service inc standard poor corp. has review federal national mortgage association remic mortgage securities being offered classes bear stearns co offering series is backed fannie mae % securities offering used at-market pricing separately fannie mae issued remic mortgage securities classes first boston corp offering series is backed fannie mae % securities pricing details were n't available offerings bring fannie mae remic issuance total volume program began april societa azioni finanziaria industria manaifatturiera italy % depository receipts due nov. priced yield % fees bankers trust international ltd fees mitsubishi corp finance japanese parent % bonds due nov. priced yield % annually full fees yamaichi international europe ltd fees indian oil corp india floating-rate notes due november paying six-month london interbank offered rate point priced par credit suisse first boston ltd guaranteed india fees notes offered fixed level national westminster bank plc u.k. undated variable-rate notes priced par merill lynch international ltd initial interest rate set point three-month libor subsequent margins set agreement natwest merrill margin agreed is fallback rate libor point years libor point thereafter keihin electric express railway co japan bonds due nov. equity-purchase warrants indicating % coupon par yamaichi international europe ltd bond carries warrant exercisable dec. nov. buy company shares expected premium % closing share price terms are fixed oct. seiren co japan swiss francs privately placed convertible notes due march indicated % coupon par bank leu ltd put option march indicated yield % callable march also beginning sept. declining point semiannually par swiss franc note is convertible nov. march indicated % premium closing share price oct. terms are scheduled be fixed n. nomura co japan swiss francs privately placed convertible notes due march indicated % coupon par bank julius baer put option march indicated yield % swiss franc note is convertible nov. march % premium closing share price oct. terms are scheduled be fixed aegon n.v netherlands dutch guilders % bonds due nov. priced yield % issue price % full fees amro bank fees continental airlines four-part issue secured equipment certificates priced drexel burnham lambert inc size issue was decreased originally planned addition planned two-part offering unsecured notes was n't offered first part consisting % secured equipment certificates due june was priced yield maturity % second part consisting % secured equipment certificates due june was priced yield maturity % third part consisting % secured equipment certificates due april was priced yield maturity % fourth part consisting % secured equipment certificates due april was priced yield maturity % issue was rated single-b-2 moody single-b s&p parts issue are callable time par continental airlines is unit texas air corp