greece second bout general elections year is slated nov. hoping see modicum political normalcy restored view greece eight-year misadventure autocratic pseudosocialism subsequent three-month hitch conservative-communist coalition government is bright sign scandals still encircling former prime minister andreas papandreou fallen socialist government are like flies buzzing rotting carcass mid-june round voting greeks gave clear mandate single political party ad interim coalition government emerged post-electoral hagglings was essence little more ill-conceived offspring ideological miscegenation side center-right new democracy party headed constantine mitsotakis other so-called coalition left progress quaint rather deceptive title merger pro-soviet communist party greece euro-communist cousin hellenic left unifying bond left-right mismatch was plain pasok mr. papandreou party common political enemy ostensible goal was mop-up government corruption purportedly levels main marks were mr. papandreou closest associates point fact catharsis was overdue decades reduced buzzword status ex parte pledges however notion transmogrified promised assault targets primarily political gains not justice regard greece long-bubbling bank-looting scandal mr. papandreou principal accuser remains george koskotas former owner bank crete self-confessed embezzler now residing jail cell salem mass. is fighting extradition proceedings return greece mr. koskotas credibility is best problematic has ample motive shift blame testimony has also been found less forthright numerous points nevertheless new democracy communist parties herald assertions proof pasok complicity unanswered questions are mr. papandreou received stolen bank crete funds additional bribes as contended prime minister ordered state agencies deposit mr. koskotas bank then skim interest pasok cut was mr. koskotas pinched former ministers were so heavily implicated koskotas affair pasok members parliament voted refer special court eluding parliamentary probe was case millions drachmas mr. koskotas funneled new democracy coffers end investigation produced only circumstantial evidence indications point pasok not clinching proof issue greeks were told national intelligence agency eyp regularly monitored telephone conversations prominent figures including key opposition politicians journalists pasok cabinet members convincing arguments was never established mr. papandreou personally ordered directed wiretaps central weakness scandals debates was pointed especially well discussions focused arms deals kickbacks coalition government tried show pasok ministers had received hefty sums oking purchase f-16 fighting falcon mirage combat aircraft produced u.s.based general dynamics corp. france avions marcel dassault respectively naturally general dynamics dassault be expected hamper prospective future dealings making disclosures sums paid not various greek officials services rendered seems mr. mitsotakis communist chums have unwittingly served mr. papandreou moral victory platter pasok guilty not now traipse countryside condemning whole affair witch hunt mr. papandreou expense verbal high jinks alone n't help pasok regain power mr. papandreou never be underestimated first came predictable fusillade charged coalition left progress had sold leftist tenets collaborating right-wing plot aimed ousting pasok thwarting course socialism greece then buttress credibility left enticed smaller leftist parties stand election pasok banner next continued court communists many feel betrayed left-right coalition birth bringing pasok well-respected communist party candidate balance hopes gaining disaffected centrist votes managed attract former new democracy party representative known political enemy mr. mitsotakis thus pasok heads polls not only diminished scandal-stench also seals approval representatives harshest accusers crucial elections are greece pressing issues state are getting lost shuffle country future nato participation remains unsure instance greece also revamp major pieces legislation preparation targets heightened common market cooperation greece bilateral relations u.s. need attention soon well current accord concerning u.s. military bases greece lapses may negotiations new agreement were frozen june elections clock is running matter concern is extradition mohammed rashid palestinian terrorist is wanted u.s. bombing pan american airways flight greek courts have decided favor extradition rashid case matter awaits final approval greece next justice minister greeks seem barely aware importance case litmus test greece be counted in out international efforts combat terrorism pasok win elections outright is improbable greek press previously eager palm pasok line has turned mr. papandreou wild-eyed vengeance yet possibility lash-up government is all too real mr. papandreou becomes major opposition leader hamstring conservative-led coalition also force new elections early next year frustrating procedures election president republic march new democracy has once again glaringly underestimated opponent linked own prospects negative reaction pasok forgetting tend program clarity rectification internal squabbles mr. papandreou 's not exactly sitting pretty stage is undoubtedly most proficient bull slingers ever raked muck seems far wiser view sidelined certainly not yet eliminated mr. carpenter regional correspondent national review has lived athens