old friends george bush deng xiaoping are trying limit further damage u.s.-china ties congress prepares fresh package sanctions beijing already-tense relationship get worse problem congress be weigh china is saying people more conciliatory message is delivering bush administration move apparently aimed heading new punitive legislation mr. deng sent indirect signal washington t.d. lee columbia university physicist met mr. deng other chinese leaders beijing last month met mr. bush return mr. lee says told president chinese made statements regard first step reconciliation communication mr. lee brought represents softer line u.s. has been hoping hear chinese officials june massacre pro-democracy demonstrators beijing chinese leader mr. lee informed mr. bush expressed regret had happened beijing conceded china officials bore responsibility mr. lee says mr. deng told not mind participated demonstrations signed anti-government materials went hunger strikes mr. deng added says mr. lee really made mistakes not shirk responsibility not just blame demonstrators mr. lee also reported president separate meeting communist party chief jiang zemin said chinese leadership looked kindly students took part demonstrations mr. jiang also pledged chinese red cross publish very soon list killed told physicist china leaders were very much concerned deaths had arranged aid victims families transmitted conversations white house prof. lee says adds was not acting messenger says chinese never asked convey statements president bush white house spontaneously invited do so mr. lee concedes statements made are far different others being issued china attributes fact situation china is very complex according u.s. sources beijing administration hopes mr. deng fairly conciliatory comments prod congress be cautious further sanctions beijing president does n't want have legislative sanctions says u.s. official not have choice given china far-from-conciliatory statements own people mr. bush be unable prevent new sanctions beijing officials have said step campaign arrests intimidation participated demonstrations sentences have been stiff university student got years participating rallies sources beijing said 18-year-old worker got years has beijing hinted citizens publish identities killed far victims are officially considered evil-doers families receive compensation man gunned stray bullet cycling work carries death official stigma counterrevolutionary wife says 's more much china official rhetoric is hostile u.s china frequently lambastes u.s. embassy harboring astrophysicist fang lizhi political dissident took refuge there massacre u.s. are still people want crush china interfere internal affairs zhu qizhen china new ambassador u.s. said left washington last week house senate are begin soon hashing agreement sanctions legislation probably be attached state department authorization bill mr. bush is n't expected veto congressional staffer involved drafting sanctions says are likely mirror mr. bush enacted shortly massacre legislative action carry greater weight be more difficult rescind measures already effect are expected be made law include ban military sales exchanges suspension most high-level government contacts halt u.s. trade enhancement programs such overseas private investment corp. trade development program codifying sanctions prompt chinese retaliation sides are n't careful u.s.-china ties spin downward control says u.s. official beijing bush deng are hoping cooler heads prevail