national association securities dealers self-regulatory organization over-the-counter securities markets disciplined number firms individuals alleged violations industry rules firms were expelled nasd were suspended barred were fined first securities group california principal firm louis fernando vargas marina rey calif. were jointly fined expelled alleged violations reporting requirements securities sales also mr. vargas was barred association nasd member first securities beverly hills mr. vargas be reached comment telephone-information operator had listing party j.l. henry co. miami principal firm henry i. otero miami were jointly fined expelled alleged improper use customer funds other things also mr. otero was barred association nasd member j.l. henry has n't miami telephone listing operator said mr. otero apparently has unpublished number also n't be reached biscayne securities corp. lauderhill fla. principal firm alvin rosenblum plantation fla. were jointly fined given 10-day suspensions allegedly selling securities unfair prices biscayne has n't telephone listing operator said mr. rosenblum apparently has unpublished phone number also n't be reached triton securities danville calif. principal firm delwin george chase also danville were jointly fined given 30-day suspensions part settlement admitting denying wrongdoing triton mr. chase consented findings violations connection limited-partnership sales officials triton n't be reached comment mr. chase did n't return telephone call office crane co. securities inc. mount clemens mich. president glenn r. crane sterling heights mich. consented joint fine admitting denying wrongdoing consented findings violations escrow record-keeping rules mr. crane did n't return call seeking comment first commonwealth securities corp. new orleans president kenneth j. canepa also new orleans consented fine also mr. canepa received two-week suspension principal capacity admitting denying wrongdoing consented findings had inaccurately represented firm net capital maintained inaccurate books records made other violations mr. canepa confirmed had consented sanctions declined comment further weatherly securities corp. new york principals dell eugene keehn william northy prater jr. mercer island wash. thomas albert mcfall red bank n.j consented fine admitting denying wrongdoing consented findings failed return funds owed customers connection limited-partnership offering reached office mr. mcfall currently chairman said implication failed return investor funds is inappropriate inaccurate described situation escrow problem timing issue said was rapidly rectified losses customers w.n. whelen co. georgetown del. president william n. whelen jr. also georgetown were barred transacting principal trades days were jointly fined firm mr. whelen allegedly sold securities public unfair prices other alleged violations mr. whelen denied firm had sold securities unfair prices suggested examination practices nasd need improvement firm nasd differ meaning markup markdown added shearson lehman hutton inc. new york is 62%-owned american express co. consented fine admitting denying wrongdoing firm consented findings failed respond timely manner nasd requests information connection customer complaint shearson spokesman had comment following individuals were fined indicated barred association nasd members noted suspended noted none people be reached comment had comment andrew derel adams killeen texas fined john francis angier jr. reddington shores fla. mark anthony arlington heights ill. 30-day suspension william stirlen arlington heights ill. 30-day suspension fred w. bonnell boulder colo. six-month suspension michael j. boorse horsham pa. david chiodo dallas barred principal camille chafic cotran london john william curry fined ordered disgorge one-year suspension john william davis colonsville miss. fined jeffrey gerard dompierre valrico fla. 10-day suspension eugene michael felten la canada calif. fined ordered disgorge suspended year marion stewart spitler la canada fined ordered disgorge suspended months mr. felten said got amounted parking ticket complaining ended sizable fine suspension matter did n't involve anybody securities transactions added victor stanley fishman longwood fla. fined william harold floyd houston michael anthony houston bronx n.y. amin jalaalwalikraam glenham n.y. richard f. knapp london 30-day suspension deborah renee martin st. louis joseph francis muscolina jr. palisades park n.j. robert c. najarian brooklyn park minn. edward robert norwick nesconset n.y. charles d. phipps sr. hermitage pa. fined david scott rankin lake st. louis mo. leigh a. sanderoff gaithersburg md. fined ordered disgorge sandra ann smith ridgefield n.j. james g. spence aloha ore. six-month suspension mona sun jamaica estates n.y. william swearingen minneapolis six-month suspension john bew wong san francisco rabia m. zayed san francisco following were barred suspended stephanie veselich enright rolling hills calif. fined ordered disgorge stuart lane russel glendale calif. fined ordered disgorge devon nilson dahl fountain valley calif. fined mr. dahl registered representative insurance business said screwed did n't realize was breaking securities laws insurance agents have been forced companies becoming registered reps said are not providing compliance security-type training avoid stupid mistakes following were barred noted suspended consented findings admitting denying wrongdoing edward l. cole jackson miss. fine rita rae cross denver fine 30-day suspension thomas richard meinders colorado springs colo. fine five-day suspension eight-month suspension principal ronald a. cutrer baton rouge la. fine one-month suspension karl grant hale midvale utah fine clinton p. hayne new orleans fine one-week suspension richard m. kane coconut creek fla. fine john b. merrick aurora colo. fine 10-day suspension john p. miller baton rouge fine two-week suspension randolph k. pace new york fine 90-day suspension brian d. pitcher new providence n.j. fine wayne a. russo bridgeville pa. fine 15-day suspension orville leroy sandberg aurora colo. fine 10-day suspension richard t. marchese las vegas nev. one-year suspension eric g. monchecourt las vegas one-year suspension robert gerhard smith carson city nev. two-year suspension was n't ever actively engaged securities activities said mr. cutrer never had clients was just stupid mistake get license said adding just as soon not get details settlement