westinghouse electric corp. shuttered massive steam turbine plant lester pa. years seemed company had pulled plug century-old power generation business now westinghouse is enjoying resurgence demand steam combustion turbines even join growing legion independent electric producers new venture japan mitsubishi heavy industries ltd. announced last week is poised penetrate growing markets overseas first time westinghouse year has seen significant increase orders power plants most are independent producers instead regulated utilities westinghouse believes ride wave demand stretching next years analysts agree predicting revived market significantly boost westinghouse bottom line coming years westinghouse earnings be materially enhanced sooner says russell l. leavitt salomon brothers inc company expects need megawatts new generation u.s. next decade already year has received orders 150-megawatt advanced combustion turbines florida power light co. 300-megawatt plants intercontinental energy corp. others westinghouse own role supplier also is changing past company usually took token equity positions power plants supplied kicker close deals last june annnouncement westinghouse put build new 55-megawatt plant herald new age westinghouse plant provide electrical power southern california edison co. backup power steam u.s. borax chemical co have n't decided strategy yet become independent producer depending 're developer just supplier says theodore stern executive vice president company energy utility systems group same time westinghouse hopes venture mitsubishi help fend growing competition particularly u.s. such european competitors asea brown boveri ag siemens ag british general electric co agreement westinghouse be able purchase smaller combustion turbines japanese partner package sell own generators other equipment westinghouse also jointly bid projects misubishi giving edge developing asian markets addition companies develop new steam turbine technology such plants ordered florida power even utilize other plants times take advantage currency fluctuations even still compete mitsubishi also work jointly projects gain lot sourcing flexibility mr. stern contends westinghouse-mitsubishi venture was designed non-equity transaction circumventing possible antitrust concerns westinghouse carefully crafted agreement justice department earlier year successfully challenged proposed steam turbine joint venture asea brown boveri is expected current surge demand new power be filled primarily independent producers utilities are n't regulated therefore do n't need government approval construct new plants westinghouse expects half new orders turbines come independent producers least next years shutdowns company lester east pittsburgh plants company believes has sufficient capacity meet near-term demand much smaller more efficient manufacturing facilities north carolina still westinghouse acknowledges demand independent producers evaporate prices fuel such natural gas oil rise sharply utilities have been pressured regulators keep rates are suddenly freed add significant generating capacity even scenario occurs westinghouse figures is prepared company already is gearing renaissance nuclear power even has n't received order domestic nuclear plant decade john c. marous chairman chief executive officer says expects commercial order company ap600 nuclear power plant is development once see order expect be line