sitting bar four seasons restaurant architect william mcdonough seems oblivious glamorous clientele elegant setting is ogling curtains rippling ventilation ducts look much air is moving around says ventilation here is great be hearing more 38-year-old mr. mcdonough preoccupation clean air years relative obscurity is starting attract notice ecological as well aesthetic quality architecture mr. mcdonough believes well-being planet depends such stratagems opening windows cut indoor air pollution tacking down carpets instead using toxic glues avoiding mahogany comes endangered rain forests has put aesthetic ideas practice design four-star quilted giraffe restaurant architecturally impeccable progressive architecture magazine called remodeling paul stuart madison avenue clothing store has designed furniture homes as well commercial office space is now designing broadway stage set show band kid creole coconuts really stirs muse though is aerobic architecture now question is is poland ready mr. mcdonough is tackle biggest clean-air challenge yet proposed warsaw trade center poland first such center eastern europe project has already acquired certain new york cachet bloomingdale plans sell foot-tall chocolate model center holidays sales proceeds go design industries foundation aids cake topped replica center be auctioned aids benefit sotheby december mr. mcdonough plans get executed much polish center possible be made aluminum steel glass recycled warsaw abundant rubble 20-story mesh spire stand stories commercial space solar-powered batteries make spire glow windows open carpets n't be glued walls be coated nontoxic finishes extent budget allow mr. mcdonough rely solid wood rather plywood particle board limit emission formaldehyde mr. mcdonough has way poles compensate trade center emissions carbon dioxide prime suspect global atmospheric warming many scientists fear poles plant 10-square-mile forest somewhere country cost center developer footing bill news has n't exactly moved others mr. mcdonough profession become architectural johnny appleseeds architects want be aware ecological consequences work says john burgee new york firm is designing redevelopment times square n't carry extreme karen nichols senior associate michael graves architecture firm princeton n.j. says 're really mercy construction industry do readily mr. mcdonough responds 'm asking people broaden agendas son seagram executive was stationed many countries world mr. mcdonough was born tokyo attended schools places ranging hong kong shaker heights ohio entering dartmouth college earned master degree architecture yale interest natural environment dates youth father still spend time summer fly-fishing salmon iceland living hong kong says made sensitive limits food power water supplies first school u.s. was thought little strange shutting open water taps admonishing schoolmates take only brief showers dartmouth roommate established company restored hydroelectric power plants vermont yale designed first solarheated houses be built ireland mr. mcdonough first professional project fully reflect environmental ardor was design headquarters environmental defense fund new york offices took square feet building 14-foot ceilings big operable windows 1970s energy crisis efforts conserve energy sealing buildings have had unintended side effect high indoor pollution reduce fund building workers rubbed beeswax instead polyurethane floors executive director office jute rather synthetic material lies tacked-down carpets desks are wood granite instead plastic budget was only athens spartan means mr. mcdonough says fund lawyers work athenian grove potted trees economists administrators sit boulevard street lamps ficus trees offices triphosphorous bulbs simulate daylight offices outside windows have inside windows too let more real daylight proved healthy office does n't cost more says frederic krupp executive director fund really looks beautiful is very light says ann hornaday free-lance writer has visited office lunch meetings says guess did n't really notice trees maybe were hidden people quilted giraffe paul stuart renovation reflects much mr. mcdonough environmental concern restaurant was conceived sparkling crystalline geode makes extensive use stainless steel silver aluminum sets black granite table tops gray terrazzo zinc-strip floors more replace wood english oaks used paneling paul stuart however mr. mcdonough friends planted acorns country ambitious warsaw project still awaits approval city officials developer is polish american sasha muniak had worked mr. mcdonough earlier project recruited architect trade center center provide space computer hardware facsimile other telecommunications equipment not readily accessible poland now growing number westerners doing business eastern europe mr. mcdonough thinks center eiffel tower warsaw symbol resurgence poland nation use environmentally benign architecture is poland jessica mathews vice president world resources institute washington d.c. says perhaps quarter poland soil is too contaminated safe farming air pollution pollution is also killing forests destroying buildings date back middle ages future forest remains uncertain mr. muniak company balag ltd. has agreed set aside money plant maintain discussions are still going on place ensure be maintained mr. muniak says poland are n't too many people worried environment 're more worried bread table