mitsubishi estate co. major developer property owner japan has agreed pay acquire % stake rockefeller group inc. rockefeller officials said rockefeller group owns 22-acre 19-building rockefeller center midtown manhattan mitsubishi is partner citicorp plaza los angeles pacwest center portland ore. owns most land tokyo marunouchi central business district often referred rockefeller center tokyo rockefeller group sold mortgage core rockefeller center public form real estate investment trust trust has option convert shares % equity stake center year analysts say sale rockefeller group shares not affect trust value trust exercises option expected mitsubishi gain only minority stake most prestigious section center was built great depression rockefeller group holdings not encumbered trust are time life building majority stake mcgraw-hill building prime development site manhattan west side certain development rights sources familiar transaction say officials rockefeller units are unhappy deal managers rockefeller cushman wakefield inc. national real estate brokerage have reportedly structured company buy-out plan was rejected parent cushman president arthur j. mirante ii had comment reports buy-out effort mitsubishi acquisition sources say rockefeller was seeking least real estate services firm price make buy-out impractical managers cushman management is made top brokers are considered firm major asset cooperation is regarded vital success sources estimate cushman have revenue more rockefeller group said september seek investors purchase as much % firm holding company rockefeller family interests mitsubishi has agreed acquire shares rockefeller common stock held trusts established john d. rockefeller people understand resources mitsubishi see represents exciting future company said richard a. voell president rockefeller group william g. bowen chairman committee oversees family trusts said deal meets committee objective diversification family assets david rockefeller chairman rockefeller group said company talked many potential investors japan united states europe mr. rockefeller said has 20-year association mitsubishi days chairman chase manhattan corp koyata hosokawa executive vice president mitsubishi said company has spent years studying u.s. real estate market sources say rockefeller group had distributed fact book international real estate investors including mitsui real estate development co. japan canada olympia york developments ltd yesterday announcement many observers wondered japanese buyer be willing acquire piece such high-profile american real estate is understood japanese buyers shied bidding 110-story sears tower chicago purchasing world tallest building stir anti-japanese sentiments u.s rockefeller group management unit continue manage rockefeller center stipulation insisted rockefeller group