georgia-pacific corp. unsolicited bid great northern nekoosa corp. was hailed wall street cool reception target company william r. laidig nekoosa chairman chief executive officer president characterized 58-a-share bid uninvited said nekoosa board consider offer due course t. marshall hahn jr. georgia-pacific chairman chief executive said interview terms offer are negotiable added had spoken mr. laidig referred friend telephone monday evening 'm hopeful have further discussions mr. hahn said wall street takeover stock traders bid nekoosa stock well georgia-pacific bid assuming nekoosa be sold rival bidder georgia-pacific higher price as much share according estimates yesterday nekoosa common closed composite new york stock exchange trading up volume almost shares georgia-pacific closed down big board trading takeover stock traders noted junk-bond market disarray georgia-pacific bid is indication takeover game is headed namely industrial companies continue bidding financial buyers such leveraged buy-out firms be disadvantage obtaining financing way world is shaping strategic buyer is going be rule financial buyer is going be exception said trader paper industry specifically most analysts said deal spur wave paper-company takeovers possibly involving such companies union camp corp. federal paperboard co. mead corp analysts argued georgia-pacific offer first hostile bid ever major players paper industry ends unwritten taboo hostile bids push managements look closely industry several attractive takeover candidates consolidation has been long overdue was just culture industry kept happening georgia-pacific offer has definitely changed landscape said gary palmero oppenheimer co added mark rogers prudential-bache securities inc. 's much easier be second georgia-pacific acquisition nekoosa create largest u.s. forest-products company based sales georgia-pacific ranked third weyerhaeuser co. international paper co. nekoosa ranked 11th sales combined company have had sales combination also presents great risks time most analysts industry consultants say pulp paper prices are heading dive adding capacity debt squeeze georgia-pacific industry declines more company expects moreover unexpected strengthening dollar hurt georgia-pacific nekoosa major product lines containerboard is used make shipping boxes market pulp are exported large quantities nobody knows deep cycle is going be said rod young vice president resource information systems inc. bedford mass. economic-forecasting firm depending far down go be difficult pay debt person familiar georgia-pacific said acquisition more double company debt almost also be drag georgia-pacific earnings roughly goodwill amount bid exceeds nekoosa book value have be subtracted earnings period decades georgia-pacific mr. hahn said combined operation allow savings many ways companies produce market pulp containerboard white paper means goods be manufactured closer customers saving shipping costs said moreover production runs be longer cutting inefficiencies adjusting machinery production cycles georgia-pacific save money selling pulp company uses own sales organization nekoosa employs higher-cost agents mr. hahn said georgia-pacific has accounted strategy significant downturn pulp paper industry event said temporarily dilute earnings said even conditions company still realize savings tens millions dollars first year following merger fit is so good see time opportunity said georgia-pacific has suspended stock-repurchase program finance acquisition bank debt provided banks led bankamerica corp georgia-pacific owns nekoosa shares need federal antitrust clearance buy more worth u.s. clearance also is needed proposed acquisition nekoosa defense options be undercut somewhat precarious state junk-bond market limits much value target reach debt-financed recapitalization company chairman mr. laidig group advisers met offices wachtel lipton rosen katz law firm specializing takeover defense nekoosa also is being advised goldman sachs co georgia-pacific advisers are wasserstein perella co. stands receive fee takeover succeeds law firm shearman sterling people familiar nekoosa said board is n't likely meet week next respond bid board has business days respond addition usual array defenses including so-called poison pill staggered board nekoosa has takeover defense maine state law barring hostile bidders merging acquired businesses years nekoosa is incorporated maine georgia-pacific has filed lawsuit federal court maine challenging poison pill maine merger law nekoosa poison pill allows shareholders vote rescind georgia-pacific is n't likely pursue course immediately take days n't affect provisions maine law companies mentioned analysts possible counterbidders nekoosa are international paper weyerhaeuser canadian pacific ltd. macmillan bloedel ltd 'm sure everybody else is putting pencil paper said kathryn mcauley analyst first manhattan co international paper weyerhaeuser declined comment canadian pacific n't be reached comment macmillan bloedel said has n't plans make bid nekoosa investors were quick spot other potential takeover candidates have strong cash flows low-cost operations paper company stocks rallied big board offer were union camp up federal paperboard up mead up temple inland inc. up over-the-counter national trading bowater inc. jumped analysts argued n't be flurry takeovers industry continuing capacity-expansion program is eating available cash moreover analysts said expect foreign paper company deeper pockets georgia-pacific end acquiring nekoosa signaling rest industry hostile bids are unproductive is one-time event said lawrence ross painewebber inc. referring georgia-pacific bid many analysts believe given attractiveness paper companies cash flows as well frantic consolidation paper industry europe be least few more big hostile bids u.s. companies next several months buyers analysts added be foreign other u.s. concerns georgia-pacific bid open door new era consolidation paper industry said mark devario shearson lehman hutton inc do n't think anyone is now immune takeover said robert schneider duff phelps inc. chicago added paper company management has be saying someone comes 'm going go somebody prudential-bache mr. rodgers said does n't see industry capacity-expansion program hindering takeover activity several projects said are still drawing board moreover 's lot cheaper quicker buy plant build one indeed number analysts said japanese paper companies are hungry acquire additional manufacturing capacity anywhere world predicted nekoosa end being owned japanese company meanwhile shearson lehman mr. devario said stay competitive u.s. paper industry needs catch european industry most-recent wave friendly takeovers was completed u.s. have been more mergers acquisitions european paper industry said