price wars fast-food giants are starting clobber fast-food little guys franchisees elephants start fighting ants get killed says murray riese co-owner national restaurants new york franchisee pizza hut roy rogers other chains hamburger pizza outlets saturate area franchisers are struggling desperately market share slashing prices stepping costly promotions fight is putting tight squeeze profits many threatening drive smallest ones business straining relations national fast-food chains franchisees chains used offer discounts winter business was slow last year so discounting has become 12-month thing says donald harty president charisma group inc. new york franchisee grand metropolitan plc burger king chain though charisma sales are slightly year mr. harty says profits be flat lower bill konopnicki safford ariz. licensee mcdonald corp. is chairman company national operators advisory board says fast-food outlets be serious trouble based amount discounting seems be going recently huge fast-food industry sales about last year kept price-skirmishing minimum early year pepsico inc. taco bell unit wendy international inc. slashed prices stepped promotions says john rohs analyst wertheim schroder co brought chain reaction industry situation was further aggravated early month mcdonald 's set plans heat discounting offering coupons also decided go national pizza has been test-marketing now two-for-one deals pizza are common so are specials sandwiches normally priced twice high discounting say fast-food operators occurs scale frequency have n't seen result is franchisees are running hard just stay even laying middle managers working harder make less joe mack district manager cormack enterprises inc. burger king operator omaha neb. says discounting is so prevalent have serve % % more customers keep sales level 's almost 're doing extra work give away food says alan d'agosto president panda inc. operator arby restaurants omaha says 're doing is keeping customers coming are n't increasing sales fast-food outlets corner many does n't think has choice price war customers say n't go fast-food store get coupon battle continues much longer many fast-food businesses close merge predicts vincent morrissey owns string kentucky fried chicken stores midwest industry is overbuilt says fast-food franchisers have managed squeeze stores corner available national restaurant association says quick-service restaurant units u.s. rose % last year figures are available market so crowded says spokesman wendy 's columbus ohio 're doing well 're doing well someone else expense simply put is n't enough business store grow according mr. rohs sales company-owned wendy units u.s. have trailed year-earlier levels august mcdonald has also been running negative year analyst says spokesmen wendy mcdonald criticized mr. rohs calculations jack greenberg executive vice president chief financial officer mcdonald says company does n't compute much less disclose inflation-adjusted same-store sales adds short-term comparisons be very misleading differences timing marketing programs year year profit margins company-owned mcdonald outlets u.s. are holding quite nicely says mr. greenberg profits franchisees have n't been higher adds mr. greenberg sanguine outlook is n't matched many fast-food industry observers smaller chains single-store operators be first fail many industry predict big franchise groups ride storm lot longer says mr. harty burger king operator new york prolonged price pressures are driving wedge franchisers franchisees mr. morrissey kentucky fried chicken franchisee notes most franchise owners absorb increases expenses cut royalties portion sales pay franchisers franchisees n't be forced go franchiser discounting once franchisee agrees promotional program franchiser demand full participation very end says lew rudnick principal rudnick wolfe chicago law firm franchise industry clients says courts have held antitrust considerations are outweighed such cases need protect consumers deceptive marketing case many franchisees order stay good terms franchisers routinely go promotions says mr. riese national restaurants resisted prices maybe never get telephone call new franchise