government is sharpening newest weapon white-collar defendants power prevent paying legal bills defense lawyers are warning n't stick do n't get paid issue has come boil newark n.j. federal prosecutors have warned lawyers eddie antar founder former chairman crazy eddie inc. is indicted government move seize money mr. antar is using pay legal fees warning u.s. attorney office follows decisions u.s. supreme court last june cases high court ruled federal law gives prosecutors broad authority seize assets people accused racketeering drug-related crimes including fees paid lawyers indictment government succeeds seizing mr. antar assets be left top-flight legal representation attorneys are likely quit according individuals familiar case seizure also make case largest first lawyers fees have been confiscated prosecution unrelated drugs people suffer short run are defendants people suffer long run are people n't be vigorous private bar defend bill rights says gerald lefcourt criminal defense attorney says has turned number cases avoid possible fee seizures mr. antar is being investigated federal grand jury newark prosecutors have told soon seek indictment racketeering securities fraud charges racketeer influenced corrupt organizations law rico government has authority seek freeze seize defendant assets trial according individuals familiar mr. antar case prosecutors issued warning week mr. antar attorneys asked legal fees be subject seizure letter prosecutors told mr. antar lawyers recent supreme court rulings expect fees collected mr. antar be seized prosecutors have told mr. antar attorneys believe mr. antar 's allegedly ill-gotten gains are so great money has used pay attorneys derives illegal activities therefore said money be taken lawyers even are paid justin feldman jack arseneault attorneys mr. antar declined comment matter newark u.s. attorney samuel a. alito said do n't think 's legal reason limit forfeiture attorney fees drug cases mr. alito said office just responded attorney question go attorney fees is different actually doing reserve right mr. antar was charged last month civil suit filed federal court newark securities exchange commission suit sec accused mr. antar engaging massive financial fraud overstate earnings crazy eddie edison n.j. three-year period lawyers mr. antar has denied allegations sec suit civil suits previously filed shareholders mr. antar others sec has alleged mr. antar aimed pump company stock price false financial statements order sell stake reap huge profits mr. antar sec said made more sale shares justice department has emphasized government fee-forfeiture power is be used sparingly according department policy prosecutors make strong showing lawyers fees came assets tainted illegal profits attempts seizure are made still criminal defense lawyers worry defendants are being deprived sixth amendment right counsel fair trial government seize lawyers fees also worry government applies asset-forfeiture laws broadly best defense lawyers be unwilling take criminal cases are assured being paid