finger-pointing wake friday stock-market plunge think transportation department agencies be safe look again people wall street even bush administration think transportation secretary samuel skinner have played second-hand role stock slide drumbeat warnings perils airline leveraged buy-outs theory goes spooked major banks bankrolling buy-out ual inc turn sent market friday tailspin mr. skinner lbo comments probably helped discourage banks participating ual deal says louis marckesano airline analyst janney montgomery scott inc. philadelphia brokerage house government is putting nose does n't belong skinner is head pack many others indeed most industry officials members congress absolve mr. skinner saying ual deal was flawed start single-handedly sparked crash had nothing do thing is clear aftermath price slide sam skinner repeated jawboning buy-out issue has irritated bush administration so much so white house officials want rein yesterday example administration came out opposition legislation strengthen transportation department hand blocking leveraged buy-outs statements mr. skinner congress suggested looked favorably explicitly endorsing moreover administration officials say office management budget director richard darman treasury secretary nicholas brady council economic advisers michael boskin u.s. trade representative carla hills have had problems mr. skinner jawboning secretary skinner part says 's silly blame market crash banks country japan n't put financing together terms offered said telephone interview detroit was speaking economic club detroit have same kind questions raised financial aspects transaction very least administration has been sending mixed signals leveraged buy-outs foreign ownership u.s. airlines last month mr. skinner forced northwest airlines reduce stake held klm royal dutch airlines ensure said foreign airline n't illegally control northwest is n't clear treat other leveraged buy-outs deal insists be handled separately case-by-case basis gives mr. skinner lots wiggle room critics say does n't provide clear picture business community pass government muster 's regulatory scandal says timothy pettee merrill lynch co. airline analyst contends lack clear standards raises specter inconsistent decision-making unfair treatment mr. skinner says has n't spelled policy leveraged buy-outs wall street bankers lawyers simply find ways circumvent others say mr. skinner is gagged economic policy council cabinet-level group makes decisions national economic issues finishes ruminations issue group is scheduled discuss airline buy-outs again today administration has yet reach decision airline buy-outs president bush treasury secretary brady general do n't have philosophical problems leveraged buy-outs foreign investment involving non-airline companies do n't appear inclined block mr. bush has n't yet focused airline buy-out question buy-out issue is politically financially complex because separate intertwining questions foreign ownership debt levels foreign companies are barred law holding more % voting stock exerting actual control u.s. airlines original northwest airlines bid klm have contributed % equity received only % voting stock transportation department concluded was violation spirit not letter law persuaded northwest restructure deal other things economic policy council is discussing department interpretation law appears leading administration officials believe northwest decision leaves u.s. open charges protectionism undermine u.s. position international trade talks mr. skinner complain went too far defining control american citizens be discouraged applying same reasoning future buy-outs mr. skinner plays rift administration foreign-ownership question think darman brady boskin have same basic understanding importance foreign investment country said yesterday understand have statutory duty enforce safety existing law regarding foreign ownership other department officials argue be foolish open u.s. markets foreign carriers investments other countries are blocking expanded service american carriers overseas debt issue also is contentious mr. skinner says is concerned heavily leveraged airlines be so stretched funds safety suffer have make sure company spends right amount maintenance says experts say is n't correlation airline debt load safety record systematic link finances safety has ever been demonstrated says michael levine dean yale university school organization management formerly top official civil aeronautics board mr. skinner satisfied safety concerns northwest deal requiring airline file certain financial information affect safety including maintenance expenditures now is pressure congress extend reporting requirements other debt-laden airlines have n't been involved recent buy-outs final dispute involved leveraged buy-out issue is much authority transportation department have dealing lbos several members congress generally delighted mr. skinner activist approach buy-outs want department be able block deals become final administration told lawmakers yesterday opposed legislation saying government already has enough authority currently however transportation department authority leveraged buy-outs appears be case too much too late department does n't have prior-review authority addition n't persuade company restructure unacceptable buy-out plan only recourse is revoke airline certificate effect grounding carrier says house aviation subcommittee chairman james oberstar minnesota democrat is using howitzer go deer hunting