wake slide sterling tailspin stock market string problematic economic indicators british chancellor exchequer nigel lawson promised gradual improvement u.k. economy speech prepared delivery london financial community mr. lawson summed current economic policy battle wring inflation british economy using high interest rates essential instrument carry campaign weeks boosting base rates % pledged rates have remain high time come mr. lawson also made clear be watching exchange rates carefully sinking pound makes imports more expensive increases businesses expectations future inflation argued apparent warning currency traders have lately been selling british currency stated exchange rates have major role assessment monetary conditions reaffirming current monetary policy using high interest rates fight inflation shore pound mr. lawson dismissed other approaches managing economy said monitors money-supply figures does n't give paramount importance private government economists have suggested mr. lawson also dismissed possibility imposing direct credit controls britain financial system mr. lawson speech delivered lord mayor london annual dinner mansion house came heels grueling period u.k. economy weeks ago campaign blunt inflation home arrest world-wide plunge pound raised base rates full percentage point % increase british currency slid perceived threshold marks early last week was quoted marks late new york trading wednesday leading speech was drumroll economic statistics suggesting british war inflation be more bruising previously assumed unemployment september dropped lowest level lower joblessness is generally good news hefty drop last month indicates economy is n't slowing as much hoped doubling interest rates last months meanwhile average earnings britain were up % august previous year inflationary sign came surge building-society lending record last month much higher level economists had predicted separate speech prepared delivery dinner robin leigh-pemberton bank england governor conceded demand pressures were even more buoyant had been appreciated british economy was heating last year added 's quick-fix solution economic woes said tight monetary policy is right approach discussing recent slide stock prices central bank governor stated markets now appear have steadied nasty jolt 190.58-point plunge dow jones industrial average week ago new york market plunge prompted 70.5-point drop london financial times-stock exchange share index mr. leigh-pemberton declared experience owed nothing particular problems british economy specifically pointed compared u.s. market u.k. has far fewer highly leveraged junk-bond financings discussing future monetary arrangements mr. lawson repeated thatcher government commitment join exchange rate mechanism european monetary system did n't indicate