benjamin jacobson sons has been new york stock exchange specialist firm charge trading stock ual corp. predecessors early firm has never had day yesterday first ual did n't open order imbalance did half-hour session was priced share down more monday close sank further as low big rally developed last half hour pushing stock back up close down just monday process shares traded making ual second most active issue big board munching pizza yelling voices gave benjamin jacobson specialists big board ual trading post yesterday presided only be described financial free-for-all was chaotic like call controlled chaos said 47-year-old robert j. jacobson jr. grandson firm founder manned ual post yesterday christopher bates energetic long islander 's dead ringer actor nicolas cage was doing selling options traders arbitrage traders everyone said mr. bates cooling carton apple juice close yesterday added mr. jacobson were pretty bad losses stock big board traders said 200,000-share buy order share entered bear stearns co. was active ual stock all day is set ual crowd late afternoon subsequent rally ual helped staggering stock market stage astonishing recovery 80-point deficit finish only slightly monday close jacobson traders had been hoping ual trading get back normal read news unraveling ual takeover plans train work yesterday morning news told be while longer ual resumed trading regular airline stock months gyrations mr. jacobson walked office a.m. edt announced buckle messrs. jacobson bates walked big board floor about a.m. yesterday immediately spotted trouble already entered big board computers transmitted post were sell orders ual shares ual news had already caused selling furor so-called third market firms buy sell stock away exchange floor ual closed big board monday share traded third market afterward as low share were rumors 148-a-share trades minutes opening bell jacobson specialists kept getting sell orders heavier imagined posted first indication price range stock probably open range was quickly narrowed traders surrounding post were told be likely target ual finally opened half hour late shares traded was selling pressure everyone said trader month friday-the-13th market plunge spurred ual news was n't bad jacobson specialists yesterday action earlier day stock trading was halted critical time specialists catch breath not yesterday mr. jacobson gray hair flying did n't wear red-white-and-blue sneakers sweat so much considered sending new shirt mr. bates usually handles day-to-day ual trading own yesterday heavy trading action eventually consumed not only messrs. jacobson bates other jacobson partners doing specialist-firm job tugging buyers sellers together adjusting prices accommodate market floor traders crammed ual post most day probably hundreds more came went seething mass trader described million-share volume flowing jacobson specialist operation was about times normal stock heavy buying last half hour led specialists take special steps bear stearns order marked late-day turnaround caused massive buying effort ual jumped share last half hour said mr. bates seconds trading go mr. jacobson voice had left announced trading mob 're going trade price bell meant trading occur final seconds way making sure last-second orders are n't subjected sudden price swing upset customers about shares sold bell representing about late orders specialists estimate big board traders praised jacobson specialists getting yesterday trading halt chicago ual spokesman way policy declined comment company stock specialists performance leaving exchange about p.m. jacobson specialists made predictions trading go today said earl ellis jacobson partner got involved ual action starts all over again today