disarray junk-bond market began last month credit crunch campeau corp. has offered commercial banks golden opportunity play greater role financing billion-dollar takeovers big new york banks seem have kicked chances away moment embarrassing failure citicorp chase manhattan corp. deliver bank financing leveraged buy-out united airlines parent ual corp more decade banks have been pressing congress banking regulators expanded powers act securities firms playing wall street lucrative takeover game giving mergers advice way selling trading high-yield junk bonds expanded powers reached zenith july bankers trust new york corp. provided mergers advice equity investment bank loans leveraged buy-out northwest airlines parent nwa inc major selling points used los angeles financier alfred checchi getting takeover approved was deal did n't include junk bonds was seen advantage lobbying airline employees washington regulators approval contested takeover debt deal was supplied banks charles nathan co-head mergers acquisitions salomon brothers inc. says is natural banks try expand bread-and-butter business providing senior debt buy-outs ual collapse says tell 's not going work that easily david batchelder mergers adviser la jolla calif. aided los angeles investor marvin davis bids put ual nwa play takeover candidates year says banks have been preparing play larger larger role acquisition financing mr. batchelder says past banks normally have loaned % total buy-out price loans secured target company assets % borrowed funds come sale investors junk bonds offer less security typically carry higher yields bank loans mr. checchi purchase nwa mr. batchelder notes was probably most aggressive date bank debt % purchase price mr. batchelder says citicorp failure deliver promise raise ual bank debt labor-management buy-out group is very distressing potential users highly-confident letter commercial banks client mr. davis used just such letter citicorp pursuing ual citicorp later agreed work competing ual buy-out group executives citicorp chase manhattan declined comment ual situation changing nature banks role financing takeovers wake campeau problems prices junk bonds tumbled throwing doubt ability corporate acquirers finance large takeovers help junk bond sales mark solow senior managing director manufacturers hanover trust co. says falloff junk bonds yet open new business opportunities banks structuring takeovers warns banks have have enough discipline not make loans are too risky fact manufacturers hanover said third-quarter earnings report fees syndicating loans other banks dropped % did n't take part lot deals credit quality was poor says bank spokesman james b. lee head syndications private placements chemical banking corp. said believes banks still make credible offer one-stop shopping takeover finance evidence cites yesterday arrangement final financing bid american medical international inc. chemical served lead bank equity investor current weakness junk bond market banks have advantage investment banks financing contested takeovers arthur fleischer jr. takeover lawyer fried frank harris shriver jacobson notes political emotional bias has developed junk bonds hostile bidder deliberately avoided using junk bonds was paramount communications inc. initial offer acquire time inc. share paramount spokesman says decision was based financial not political drawbacks junk bonds observers believe paramount chairman martin davis wanted avoid possible taint being perceived corporate raider controversial bid time end mr. davis used junk bonds so raise paramount bid share monday-morning quarterbacks said initial lower bid junk bonds was factor losing company time eluded paramount acquiring warner communications inc success nwa financing failure ual deal also seem highlight important new role takeover financing being played japanese banks japanese banks accounted % nwa bank debt according report transportation secretary samuel skinner was broad-scale rejection japanese banks helped seal fate attempt buy ual citicorp chase are attempting put together new lower bid takanori mizuno chief economist institute financial affairs inc. tokyo research center finance economics says junk bond market became very jittery 's fear coming recession possible bankruptcy lbo companies factors have combined deter lbo lending japanese banks provided solely banks not high-yield junk bonds