berlin wall still stands man built has fallen east germany yesterday removed erich honecker staunchest holdouts reform rumbling communist world effort win back confidence increasingly rebellious citizens was move stunned east bloc hardly ushers in era reform least anytime soon politburo replaced mr. honecker had led east germany years headed security apparatus man cut same cloth egon krenz most recent internal-security chief longtime honecker protege east germany is clear is poland communist party now shares power democratically elected solidarity union is hungary yesterday parliament approved constitutional changes meant help turn communist nation multiparty democracy still change east germany has enormous implications east west raises long-cherished hopes many germans reunification prospect almost equally alarms political leaders moscow washington western europe mr. krenz was named new party chief just minutes party 163-member central committee convened east berlin east german news agency adn claimed mr. honecker had asked be relieved duties health reasons west german government sources said 26-man politburo had asked resignation separate meeting late tuesday mr. honecker was twice hospitalized summer gall bladder ailment physical condition has been subject intense speculation western media adn said mr. honecker hard-line stalinist supervised construction berlin wall also was relieved title head state position chief military mr. krenz is expected be formally named positions nation parliament convenes later week mr. honecker ignoble fall culminates nearly decades iron-handed leadership mr. honecker now years old built east germany most economically advanced nation soviet bloc grip power unraveled summer thousands countrymen dissatisfied harshness rule fled west thousands more have taken streets last month east germany largest wave domestic unrest workers uprising washington bush administration took characteristically cautious skeptical view leadership change official line was offer warmer ties mr. krenz provided is willing institute reforms u.s. officials have strong doubts is reformer president bush told reporters leadership change reflects change east-west relations do n't think so mr. krenz has been very much accord policies honecker top u.s. expert east germany added is clear-cut champion reform know east german leadership indeed mr. krenz said east german television last night be sharing power pro-democracy groups said dialogue is important enough forums already exist different interests express removal mr. honecker was apparently result bitter infighting top ranks communist party according west german government sources mr. honecker several senior politburo members fought last week delay decisions leadership change public demonstrations country growing size intensity mr. honecker several key allies lost out battle officials say allies included politburo members guenter mittag has long headed economic affairs joachim hermann chief information policy men were also relieved duties yesterday other resignations follow 's still not clear extent change party personnel alter government resistance fundamental change clearly central figure process is egon krenz born baltic sea town now part poland was years old world war ii ended west german chancellor helmut kohl represents postwar generation has grown up germany division joining politburo youngest member mr. krenz had acquired nickname crown prince reference widely held view was hand-picked successor mr. honecker fact men have had strikingly similar career paths having served chief internal security rise top party position moreover men have hewn similar hard-line philosophy notably mr. krenz few official visits overseas came few months ago visited china massacre beijing later defended chinese government response separate visit west germany east german protestantism particular fears mr. krenz part incident january was believed have ordered arrest hundreds dissidents had sought refuge church however mr. krenz also has reputation being politically savvy shrewd ability read shifting popular mood east germany is best illustrated apparent break old mentor mr. honecker indeed according west german government sources was leaders power struggle toppled mr. honecker recent days mr. krenz has sought project kinder image according report widely circulating east berlin was mr. krenz ordered police stop using excessive force demonstrators leipzig does n't want have image gun man says fred oldenburg expert bonn-sponsored institute east european international studies cologne 's not reformer wants have image reformer part image polishing mr. krenz is expected take modest steps reform rebuild confidence people reassert party authority sacking other senior politburo officials allied mr. honecker mr. krenz loosen controls news media free travel restrictions establish dialogue various dissident groups be enough west german government officials western analysts are doubtful does n't signify people want unrest go on mr. oldenburg predicts same time expectations east german people are great continue grow says west german official 's necessary now is process democratization not just people are being heard interests are being taken seriously chancellor kohl meanwhile has invited mr. krenz open discussions bonn wide range subjects reports west german press citing sources east germany suggest mr. krenz serve only bridge mr. honecker genuine reform leader adding speculation is mr. krenz reputation heavy drinker is said also suffer diabetes is dynamic process 're experiencing first step bonn official adds selection mr. krenz also disappoint moscow soviet leader mikhail gorbachev has pressed hard change east germany rigid stance reform-minded party leaders favored moscow possible successors mr. honecker dresden party secretary hans modrow politburo member guenter schabowski were passed over mr. krenz sticks rigid policies pressure soviet union intensify moscow mr. gorbachev sent mr. krenz congratulatory telegram appeared urge new leadership heed growing calls change according soviet news agency tass gorbachev expressed conviction leadership socialist unity party east germany being sensitive demands time find solutions complicated problems gdr german democratic republic encountered force younger pro-gorbachev members east german bureaucracy has time been pushing relaxation country older generation has been torn fear tampering status quo fear happen did n't perspective east germany old guard reforms smack capitalism western-style democracy eliminate country reason being other nations bloc east germany is creature cold war erasing differences still dividing europe vast international reordering implies n't endanger statehood poland hungary ultimately lead german reunification disappearance east germany map is old guard fears 'm sure formulate reform be recipe gdr future separately identifiable state says michael simmons british journalist book east germany entitled unloved country was published month now recipe has consisted dogged effort former leader walter ulbricht establish country international legitimacy followed mr. honecker campaign build east bloc only successful stalinist economy consumer paradise man achieved perfection early mr. honecker team stopped paying thin compliments mr. gorbachev joined romania rejecting necessity adjustments systems less-self-confident czechoslovaks bulgarians contrast declared intentions reform doing nothing concrete east german media soon began presenting mr. gorbachev speeches only sketchy summaries giving space opponents late were banning soviet publications country abandoned former devotion socialist unity took insisting instead country bloc travel own road mr. honecker spoke generally valid objective laws socialism left room debate year dislocations china soviet union drive democracy poland hungary east german leadership grew still more defensive politburo member joachim herrman confessed grave concern hungarian democracy banner proclaims renewal socialism said forces are work are striving eliminate socialism loyal voices east german communist party saw nation unrest coming first signs were economic heavily subsidized consumer industries east germans have years watched west pull farther ahead first time economic growth came dead stop gingerly economists began blame central planning writers theoretical journals even raised notion introducing democracy least workplace summer independent reform movement was saying out loud had only whispered before are stalwart socialists proclaimed purpose is cleanse east germany stalinist muck not merge west pastors has envisioned new utopia creative socialism meanwhile man mr. krenz replaces has left indelible mark east german society imprisoned nazis world war ii political beliefs mr. honecker typified postwar generation committed communist leaders eastern europe took cues moscow was socialist warrior felt rankled west germany enormous postwar prosperity bonn government steadfast refusal recognize legitimacy state finally first only state visit bonn years ago won measure recognition had long sought ultimately was undone forces unleashed own comrade mr. gorbachev mr. honecker removal was bound happen says aide chancellor kohl was only matter time european community commission increased forecast economic growth ec % slightly higher june projection % annual economic report commission also projected gross domestic product growth ec members % ec inflation was seen % higher % price rise however inflation was seen slowing % leading ec growth forecasts was ireland seen growing % constant prices slower growth countries included greece % u.k. % denmark % inflation is expected be highest greece is projected % portugal % other end spectrum west german inflation was forecast % % nestle korea ltd. opened coffee non-dairy-creamer plant chongju south korea official nestle korea joint venture nestle s.a. doosan group said new facility manufacture types soluble roasted ground coffee coffee mix nondairy coffee creamer south korean coffee market consisting mostly instant coffee was estimated won last year brands made kraft general foods unit philip morris cos. had % market share nestle currently has only % share taster choice coffee poland plans start negotiations soon purchasing natural gas iran official islamic republic news agency reported agency said polish prime minister tadeusz mazowiecki told iranian deputy foreign minister mahmoud vaezi poland willingess purchase gas mr. vaezi current visit warsaw agency did n't mention possible quantities did n't say gas be delivered chinese official harshly criticized plans close british naval base downtown hong kong hong kong officials announced last week base be relocated small island allow downtown redevelopment beijing wants use base people liberation army territory returns chinese sovereignty ke zaishuo head china delegation chinese-british liaison committee hong kong accused britain trying impose fait accompli said is something not accept israeli soviet national airlines have reached preliminary agreement launching first direct flights tel aviv moscow spokesman israeli airline el al said el al director rafi har-lev top officials soviet union aeroflot negotiated preliminary pact moscow week spokesman said added concluding deal requires approval governments countries have never had direct air links chairman director republic singapore leading property companies city development ltd. cdl were charged yesterday criminal breach trust singapore dollars kwek hong png chairman cdl director quek leng chye were arrested republic corrupt practices investigation bureau tuesday night addition abetting alleged criminal breach trust kwek hong png was also charged dishonestly receiving had been stolen men were charged subordinate court released bail charges are culmination weeks rumors concerning cdl have depressed company share price lesser extent shares companies owned cdl controlling quek family brokers singapore say queks control hong leong group has widespread interests manufacturing property finance malaysia singapore news arrest charging men helped push prices singapore stock market sharply lower early trading yesterday brokers said market cdl shares recovered became apparent charges were limited men personally british companies still making hard toilet paper stopped production british tissues decided do away hard paper major customer british rail switched softer tissues train bathrooms peasants inner mongolia have partly dismantled 20-mile section china famed great wall official people daily said paper said bricks were used build homes furnaces result wall is terrible shape