j.p. morgan co. swung loss third quarter ncnb corp. reported net income more doubled security pacific corp. net rose % j.p. morgan co j.p. morgan expected posted net loss quarter reflecting new york bank decision last month add reserves losses loans less-developed countries reserve addition placed parent morgan guaranty trust co. few major u.s. banks have covered nearly medium long-term portfolios less-developed countries reserves latest quarter loss equals share year-earlier quarter morgan earned share george m. salem analyst prudential-bache securities inc. called results mildly disappointing excluding provision allowing taxes morgan paid earnings were about cents share mr. salem said new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday morgan climbed share net interest income sank % quarter interest rate short-term funds banks borrow finance longer-term loans customers was sharply higher morgan said morgan received interest payments medium long-term brazilian loans had been accruing interest net interest income have been higher quarter morgan said such loans argentina also remain classified non-accruing costing bank interest income third period income sources other interest climbed % reflecting higher corporate-finance other fees gains sales investment securities increases were partly offset lower trading-related income bank said non-interest expenses grew % ncnb corp ncnb corp. net income more doubled period largely continued strong performance bank texas operations charlotte n.c. company said earnings rose share cents share year earlier latest quarter included gain cents share related purchase remaining % ncnb texas national bank federal deposit insurance corp strong performance however contrasted unexpectedly large increase size ncnb problem loans particularly southeast third quarter nonperforming assets jumped % net loans leases % second quarter nonperformers totaled % year-ago third quarter included increase most recent quarter is loan ncnb said expects be fully repaid loss early fourth quarter deterioration credit quality offset strong loan growth % ncnb southeast operations as well % growth deposits resulting aggressive marketing campaign higher rates paid deposits also helped squeeze ncnb net interest margin southeast % % year earlier big board composite trading yesterday ncnb jumped share results were released market closed ncnb texas national formed remnants failed first republicbank corp. dallas contributed ncnb bottom line third quarter ncnb said third-quarter results reflect % earnings texas operation aug. ncnb raised new capital quarter complete ncnb texas purchase acquire several small failed thrifts fill regional franchise last week banking company said purchased freedom savings loan association tampa fla. university federal savings association san antonio texas first months ncnb net income climbed % share share year earlier security pacific corp security pacific earnings growth slowed third quarter los angeles bank holding company was still able post % increase net income robust growth residential real-estate consumer loans net rose share share year earlier company said gain resulted mainly increase net interest income reflecting % increase real estate loans mainly residential % rise consumer loans high-yielding loans effect replaced low-yielding assets such inter-bank loans were allowed decrease result security pacific net interest margin fell only basis points more mild decrease major banks california have been reporting more sluggish earnings security pacific shares closed down cents big board composite trading earnings represent % return assets security pacific % return equity loan growth offset continuing real-estate loan losses depressed arizona market security pacific reported % increase net credit losses quarter year-ago period nonperforming loans grew slightly sept. year ago security pacific loan-loss provision was down % added foreign-debt reserve year before non-interest income fell % quarter mainly unusual gain year earlier sale hong kong banking operations non-interest expense grew only % period months net rose % share share year earlier