probably most clear-cut soviet violation example is krasnoyarsk radar arms control reality nov. first some journal editorials saying krasnoyarsk violated abm treaty installation is early warning space track clearly is not deployed lawmakers said thus judge be not violation abm treaty time delegation included reporter new york times aides sen. edward m. kennedy rep. les aucoin natural resources defense council staff members washington post sept. u.s.s.r. has taken unprecedented unilateral measures openness giving american representatives possibility inspect building site krasnoyarsk radar as well radar vans areas gomel moscow so see are violations abm treaty part soviet union letter eduard shevardnadze u.n. secretary-general perez cuellar reported tass june construction station equal size egyptian pyramids constituted say directly clear violation abm eduard shevardnadze oct. 're happy guess receive confirmation krasnoyarsk violation soviets years started writing perhaps even american apologists now accede question something intriguing is going policy chambers politburo bids new agreements new loans indeed admission civilized world soviet government has recognized has credibility problem so years is confessing obvious hoping be believed other things 's not enough soviets want be believed need start telling truth more totally obvious own test authenticity be soviet decision open complete international examination most troubling mysteries u.s.-soviet relations reported anthrax outbreak soviet military facility sverdlovsk u.s. government has never waivered assessment incident accident biological weapons facility there hence violation biological weapons convention pentagon recently issued soviet military power general adopting softer line repeated sverdlovsk assessment also was detailed congressional testimony past february explosion microbiology virology institute sverdlovsk released anthrax germs caused significant number deaths mr. shevardnadze did not address topic supreme soviet soviet union official position remains anthrax deaths were caused tainted meat doubt claim just doubted mr. shevardnadze assurance last year krasnoyarsk did n't violate abm treaty just did not believe tendentious claims congressmen arms-control advocates visited krasnoyarsk are way persuaded assent tainted-meat theory u.s. team scientists met soviet counterparts washington last year soviets explanation is anthrax came lot animal feed made bones cattle grazed soil was naturally infected anthrax spores harvard matthew meselson read has sold something called scientific community notion yellow rain attacks laotian hmong were fact result fecal showers giant bees found soviet anthrax scenario completely plausible do n't believe certainly do not believe mr. gorbachev emissaries yet deserve have west take word sverdlovsk is large gray cloud indeed legitimacy arms-control process u.s. government sverdlovsk complaint krasnoyarsk is mere political posturing biological weapons violations have figured little political debate indeed have not been pressed vigorously enough u.s. government stated u.s. position is detailed specific prospect biological warfare is profoundly chilling soviets be willing set motion process allow acknowledge sverdlovsk violated agreement alternatively give u.s. specialists reasonable confidence was wholly civilian accident happens not begin deserve kind credibility mr. shevardnadze was bidding confessions monday