're sorry report monday president bush accepted resignation william allen chairman u.s. civil rights commission mr. allen appointed president reagan grew understandably tired dealing guerrilla tactics enemies recent speech provocatively titled blacks animals homosexuals is minority caused uproar title leaked mr. allen commissioners voted call unread speech thoughtless disgusting unnecessarily inflammatory commissioner mary francis berry said was sad episode saga unguided missile is chairman rep. don edwards california democrat warned mr. allen speech be scope commission jurisdiction thomas stoddard head lambda legal defense fund called prospect speech frankly shocking 've actually read speech mr. allen began warning hosts california church group opposes rights homosexuals said other participants conference do not believe rights americans be guaranteed citizens are homosexual mean persuade opposite view recalled audience strange infelicitous analogy once heard arguing now have finally recognized american blacks have rights need do same animals mr. allen objected analogy seems assimilate status blacks animals mere project charity humaneness rights basis blacks homosexuals are mere indulgences said subject being taken back says title speech was make point americans have rights individuals not members certain select groups speech criticized idiocy notions protected groups society opposed individual equality put common destiny americans instead lobbying special treatment mr. allen said homosexuals others try ensure equal treatment law not aim special privileges risk invidious retrenchment government complicity hardly sounds anti-homosexual screed 's really going here most important things understand mr. allen is is black conservative intellectual triple threat liberal establishment mr. allen teaches government prestigious harvey mudd college california remain member commission has spent years arguing civil rights are individuals rights last made waves dared defend indian girl had been adopted non-indian parents reservation mr. allen quickly ran liberal establishment again somehow elevated vague concept indian rights rights individual indians is huge divide mr. allen we're-all-in-this-together view divisive litigation approach civil rights groups indeed gap is so large mr. allen critics refuse engage debate ridicule is substitute argument effort run washington is embarrassment original purpose own movement hope next head civil rights commission be as brave mr. allen making case equality civil rights