predicting financial results computer firms has been tough job lately take microsoft corp. largest maker personal computer software generally considered industry bellwether july company stunned wall street prediction growth personal computer business overall be only % modest increase compared sizzling expansion years past investors taking sign broad industry slump was offing reacted selling company stock lost day close national over-the-counter trading was months ago last week microsoft said expects revenue first quarter ended sept. increase % announcement caused company stock surge close share microsoft surprising strength is example difficulty facing investors looking reassurances financial health computer firms 's hard know expect point said peter rogers analyst robertson stephens co industry defies characterization illustrate mr. rogers said computer-related firms follows half report most recent quarter earnings last year results half results companies expected have down quarter are hewlett-packard co. amdahl corp. sun microsystems inc. generally solid performers past international business machines corp. also is expected report disappointing results apple computer inc. meanwhile is expected show improved earnings period ended sept contradictory message comes businessland inc. computer retailer july company reported booming sales new personal computers apple ibm had resulted net income more doubling fourth quarter ended june cents share month however businessland warned investors results first quarter ended sept. had n't met expectations company said expects earnings cents share down cents share year-earlier period earnings picture confuses observers say major forces expected shape industry coming year are clearer companies continue war standards computer publishing battle typefaces is hurting adobe systems inc. sells software controls image produced printers displays recently adobe had lock market image software last month apple adobe biggest customer microsoft rebelled now firms are collaborating alternative adobe approach analysts say are likely carry ibm biggest seller personal computers along short-term outlook adobe business however appears strong company is beginning ship new software program 's being heralded boon owners low-end printers sold apple program is aimed improving quality printed material john warnock adobe chief executive officer said mountain view calif. company has been receiving calls day product was demonstrated computer publishing conference several weeks ago meanwhile competition various operating systems control basic functions computer spells trouble software firms generally creates uncertainty usually slows sales said russ crabs analyst soundview financial group mr. crabs said probably is expected weak performance aldus corp. maker widely used computer publishing program expects aldus report earnings cents share revenues third quarter compared earnings cents share revenue year-earlier period aldus officials n't be reached comment other hand battle bus is expected grow increasingly irrelevant bus is data highway computer ibm is backing type bus called microchannel other leading computer makers including h-p compaq computer corp. have chosen method users do n't care bus said daniel benton analyst goldman sachs co said apple family macintosh computers instance uses different buses one seems mind gap winners laggards grow personal computers apple compaq ibm are expected tighten hold business same time second-tier firms continue lose ground lagging competitors even leave personal computer business altogether wyse technology instance is considered candidate sell troubled operation wyse has done well establishing distribution business have n't delivered products sell said kimball brown analyst prudential-bache securities mr. brown estimates wyse terminals business is strong report loss cents share quarter ended sept personal-computer makers continue eat business more traditional computer firms ever-more powerful desk-top computers designed more microprocessors brains are expected increasingly take functions carried more expensive minicomputers mainframes guys make traditional hardware are really being obsoleted microprocessor-based machines said mr. benton result trend longtime powerhouses h-p ibm digital equipment corp. are scrambling counterattack microprocessor-based systems own have act quickly mr. benton expects compaq unveil family high-end personal computers later year are powerful enough serve hub communications large networks desk-top machines raft new computer companies also has targeted server market