cathay pacific airways smooth ride be ending first signs trouble came last month hong kong carrier subsidiary swire pacific ltd. posted % drop operating profit first months warned margins remain pressure rest year securities analysts scrapped buy recommendations seeing cathay interim figures believe more jolts lie ahead fuel personnel costs are rising tourism hong kong remains clouded china turmoil june killings beijing addition delivery delays first as many boeing 747-400s carrier has ordered have raised costs personnel had been hired man planes tough competition air-freight market is cutting important sideline also is concern once hong kong reverts china sovereignty cathay be forced play second fiddle china often-disparaged flag carrier civil aviation administration china caac sense is never be position again everything works way did before says rod eddington cathay commercial director sarah hall analyst james capel far east ltd. says is n't much cathay do rising costs jet fuel hong kong tight labor market strengthening local currency is pegged u.s. dollar factors are further complicated airline push transform regional carrier international one ms. hall says ms. hall expects cathay profit grow % annually year next earned hong kong revenue cathay is taking several steps bolster business step is beef fleet addition aircraft boeing co. cathay announced earlier year order as many airbus a330-300s expansion cost as much next years expand fleet planes up end last year according sun hung kai securities ltd fuel-efficient airbus planes be used largely replace cathay aging fleet lockheed tristars regional flights boeing aircraft be used long-haul routes europe north america cathay also is moving labor-intensive data-processing operations hong kong fierce bidding young employees hong kong is pushing cathay labor costs % year low-level staff experienced skilled employees are leaving colony part brain drain jobs already have been moved australia are plans place others canada david bell spokesman airline says move is partly aimed retaining existing staff are leaving secure foreign passports ahead cathay is working promote hong kong destination worth visiting own merits rather just stopover june killings beijing have hurt china flights cathay other routes have retained high load factors mr. eddington regards promoting hong kong important part attracting visitors japan south korea taiwan number people looking travel abroad has surged also has been speculation cathay be major private-sector participants hong kong government plans build new airport carrier possibly investing own terminal cathay officials decline comment speculation mr. eddington sees alliances other carriers particularly cathay recent link amr corp. american airlines important part cathay strategy emphasizes cathay has n't interest swapping equity stakes u.s. carrier lufthansa west german airline has cooperated decade analysts believe cathay is approached such swaps other carriers regular basis particularly popularity share exchanges has grown european carriers think alliances are very important mr. eddington says rather put funds own business rather someone else 'm not sure cross-ownership necessarily make things smoother pattern aims copy several key u.s. destinations cathay recently announced plans serve san francisco flying american airlines los angeles hub routing continuing passengers flight u.s. carrier never have big operation u.s. never have one as big pacific mr. eddington says way american coordinate good extensions boston new york chicago dallas coordinate end places bangkok singapore manila asian traffic currently accounts % cathay business is expected continue carrier mainstay cathay has long stated desire double weekly flights china is applying restart long-canceled flights vietnam further expansion southern europe is also possible says mr. bell spokesman large number hong kong companies have reincorporated offshore ahead move is n't option cathay jeopardize landing rights hong kong mr. eddington emphatically rules move london lifeblood is hong kong traffic rights says airline is putting faith sino-british agreement hong kong return china special section dealing aviation rights states landing rights hong kong airlines include smaller hong kong dragon airlines continue be negotiated hong kong government critics fret post-1997 officials ultimately be responsible beijing feeling is cathay does n't have hope long run says analyst declines be identified cathay love keep going general sense is 're going have do something mr. eddington acknowledges carrier have evolve adapt local changes feels sino-british agreement is firm ground build foreseeable future 're confident protects route structure says ability grow prosper