general motors corp. series moves angered union officials u.s. canada has signaled as many north american assembly plants not survive mid-1990s corporation struggles cut excess vehicle-making capacity announcements workers late last week gm effectively signed death notices full-sized van assembly plants cast serious doubt futures u.s. car factories gm is intense pressure close factories became unprofitable giant auto maker u.s. market share skidded past decade company currently using about % north american vehicle capacity has vowed run % capacity just month ago gm announced make aging assembly plant lakewood ga. eighth u.s. assembly facility close now gm appears be stepping pace factory consolidation get shape 1990s reason is mounting competition new japanese car plants u.s. are pouring more vehicles year costs lower gm match is united auto workers union officials have signaled want tighter no-layoff provisions new big national contract be negotiated next year gm officials want get strategy reduce capacity work force place talks begin problem however is gm moves are coming time uaw leaders are trying silence dissidents charge union is too passive face gm layoffs backdrop uaw vice president stephen p. yokich recently became head union gm department issued statement friday blasting gm flagrant insensitivity union members auto maker decision let word latest shutdowns product reassignments trickle separate communiques affected plants showed disarray inability unwillingness provide consistent information mr. yokich said gm officials told workers late last week following moves production full-sized vans be consolidated single plant flint mich means plants scarborough ontario other lordstown ohio probably be shut end shutdowns idle about canadian assembly workers about workers ohio robert white canadian auto workers union president used impending scarborough shutdown criticize u.s.-canada free trade agreement champion prime minister brian mulroney canadian auto workers benefit separate gm move affects u.s. car plants quebec workers plants van nuys calif. oklahoma city pontiac mich. were told facilities are no longer being considered build next generation pontiac firebird chevrolet camaro muscle cars gm is studying build new camaro-firebird profitably plant st. therese quebec company union officials said announcement left union officials van nuys oklahoma city uncertain futures van nuys plant employs about workers does n't have product build jerry shrieves uaw local president said facility was asked draw plans continue working flex plant build several different types products short notice satisfy demand oklahoma city plant employs about workers building eight-year-old a-body mid-sized cars steve featherston uaw local vice president said plant has new product lined none knows a-body cars die said believes gm has plans keep building a-body cars mid-1990s pontiac however camaro-firebird decision appears erase uaw hopes gm reopen shuttered assembly plant last built plastic-bodied two-seater pontiac fiero model fiero plant was viewed model union-management cooperation gm slow sales fiero forced company close factory last year union officials have taken beating politically result dissident uaw members have used fiero plant symbol labor-management cooperation failure