du pont co. reported third-quarter profit grew robust % year strength company operations various chemicals fibers petroleum du pont also raised quarterly dividend share change increase annualized payout shareholders du pont companies hurt badly sharp price declines basic chemicals plastics is benefiting broad range businesses profit gain was made weakening housing market company is supplier strengthening dollar lowers value overseas earnings are translated dollars wilmington del. company reported net share was line wall street estimates year-earlier period company earned share sales latest quarter were up % dividend increase was du pont second year affirmation statements top executives intend increase rewards shareholders have n't benefited shareholder as much need said edgar woolard jr. du pont chairman chief executive officer interview several months entered current position april largest beneficiary be seagram co. owns % du pont spokesman seagram montreal wine spirits concern controlled bronfman family said company post additional pretax profit year additional du pont dividends du pont also announced plans 3-for-1 stock split initial higher dividend be paid pre-split shares du pont stock rose share close new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday seagram closed up cents share big board trading leading gains du pont latest quarter was industrial products segment profit soared year earlier company benefited continued strong demand higher selling prices titanium dioxide white pigment used paints paper plastics james fallon new providence n.j. marketing consultant chemicals industry says du pont still holds edge making pigment company was first technology lower costs said du pont holds % world-wide market largest single share time growing uses pigment have kept tight supply others are now adding low-cost production capacity profit climbed petroleum segment du pont conoco inc. oil company was helped crude oil prices higher year higher natural gas prices volume diversifed businesses segment includes herbicides profit grew spokesman said herbicide use areas u.s. was delayed earlier year heavy rains thus increasing sales third quarter fibers segment profit rose gain du pont attributed higher demand u.s. most textile products segments posted lower earnings quarter profit coal fell partly miners strike profit polymers dropped du pont called lower demand selling prices certain packaging industrial markets months du pont earned share up % share year earlier sales increased % increased dividend be paid dec. holders record nov. stock split is subject holder approval be paid still unspecified date january holders record dec.