dollar finished softer yesterday tilted lower continued concern stock market 're trading very wary eye wall street said trevor woodland chief corporate trader harris trust savings bank new york one is willing place firm bet stock market n't take tumultuous ride news major earthquake california tuesday triggered round dollar sales early asian trade most foreign-exchange dealers said expect impact quake financial markets be short-lived dollar lackluster performance foreign-exchange traders maintain u.s. unit remains relatively well bid harris trust mr. woodland noted unit continues show resilience face barrage headline negatives recent weeks including rate increases europe japan aggressive central bank intervention 190-point plunge new york stock prices unexpectedly poor u.s. trade report action federal reserve nudge u.s. rates lower mr. woodland does n't predict significant climb u.s. unit light recent moves interest rates world noted downside potential is surprisingly dollar bulls impressively limited late new york trading yesterday dollar was quoted marks down marks late tuesday yen down yen late tuesday sterling was quoted up late tuesday tokyo thursday u.s. currency opened trading yen down wednesday tokyo close yen friday dive stock market prices fed has injected reserves banking system effort calm markets avert repeat stock market debacle analysts note last week stock market tailspin tuesday california earthquake 's hard gauge central bank wants key federal funds rate say earthquake preventing many banks operating full capacity has given fed additional reason keep liquidity high level fed did fact execute liquidity-enhancing customer repurchase agreements third set repurchase orders days analysts said additional liquidity tend reduce federal funds rate now traders say foreign exchange market is scrutinizing federal funds events wall street note dollar remains extremely vulnerable slightest bad news stock exchange indeed u.s. unit edged lower dow jones industrial average dropped about points early trading slight recovery stock market gave currency traders confidence push dollar higher unit dropped back day end dealers noted nervousness recent sharp dive stock prices intensify following suggestions bank japan governor satoshi sumita appeared advise japanese investors be very careful investing u.s. leveraged buy-outs dealers suggest only positive news horizon detract attention equities transactions is september u.s. consumer price data figures due release friday are expected show uptick inflation % % august figures show hefty rise inflation militate easing fed commodity exchange new york gold current delivery rose ounce moderate trading estimated volume was ounces early trading hong kong thursday gold was ounce