like respond jude wanniski oct. editorial-page article bradley team gave market drubbing nonpartisan portfolio manager is hardly amused overzealous emphasis senate 's maneuvering capital gains prime reason market slide oct. fact are several reasons end bull market particular 190-point slam-dunk first addressing oct. market break was certainly more technical gyration local jungle exercise investor reaction day political events washington look not managers taxable investment funds source selling late afternoon rather several usual suspects investment banks institutions geared imperfect trading programs accelerate market deterioration once begun catalyst decline was indeed breakdown united airlines transaction resultant pre-margin call liquidation various holdings arbitragers other traders assure mr. wanniski market is not as politically motivated is regard bull market sad demise be attributed several factors overextension credit realization interest rates be firm due excessive demand credit part federal government including off-balance sheet requirements leveraged buyout related transactions latter credit demands no longer supported same degree market suppliers michael milken s&ls being noticeably absent perception future deterioration corporate profits was exemplified ibm recent announcements one magnify problem times highly leveraged companies revenues are slowing interest rates are no longer accommodative bifurcated credit markets dollar slide year end due international interest-rate differentials choreographed trading techniques certain oil importers does not inspire foreign-investor interest inflation be stable time being rising cost imported goods rising domestic inventories housing divestiture candidates commodities requiring liquidation modest adding attractiveness bonds honeymoon is over poor george past week was highlighted continuing fallout panama abortion rights as well capital gains anticipated poor results republicans polls november have added investor ennui sum are technical economic political psychological reasons market recent drubbing mr. wanniski cheerfully inform mr. bradley rest notions party end energy intellect be better used focusing measures ensure long-term success leaders capitalists e.f. drake franconia n.h mr. wanniski seem simplistic blames oct. market crashlet democratic obstructionism president capital-gains proposal 's quite true wall street responds dramatically changes capital-gains rate especially growth stocks great growth bull market began june just late rep. william steiger proposal cut capital-gains tax % almost % began gather majority support congress bull market growth stocks halted rate was hiked % % effective january dow other averages continued advance growth-stock multiples suffered sclerosis point summer market began realize rate indeed be lowered indexes surged lower rate passed house ual financing reverse shocked market prospect capital gains not fulfilling market hopes was also important factor richard gilder jr new york mr. wanniski 's opportuning recent stock drubbing castigate sen. bill bradley opposition capital-gains tax cut contains clever faulty reasoning mr. wanniski theory is right tax cut increases value capital assets held owners n't increase also represent rather dramatic totally unjustified inflation values according figures asset values be pumped overnight passage cut is real money mr. wanniski says say real trouble robert s. giolito atlanta