house-senate conference approved major portions package more economic aid poland relies heavily credit loan guarantees fiscal hopes stimulating future trade investment agency international development appropriators approved secondary loan guarantees expanded trade credit insurance program total loan guarantees overseas private investment corp. are increased fiscal part same poland package conference approved least direct cash development assistance well decision was made sides are committed adding more economic support funds environmental initiatives sought bush administration agreement poland contrasts major differences remaining underlying foreign aid bill has already provoked veto threats white house is sharply confined year budget fiscal pressures are also factor shaping poland package more ambitious authorizing legislation is still pending appropriations bill conference be more decisive u.s. aid eastern europe accommodate additional cash assistance house appropriations committee last week was required reallocate estimated pentagon size loan guarantees approved yesterday is significant recent experience similar program central america indicates take several years new polish government fully use aid effectively action poland came conference separately approved international population planning activities % increase fiscal house senate are divided united nations population fund receive portion appropriations size increase is significant second area common concern world environment additional be provided development assistance fund series initiatives related global warming plight african elephant sweeping nature bill draws variety special interest amendments running import exemption california airplane museum small intriguing struggle sugar producing nations fate panama quota exports profitable u.s. market panama was stripped right u.s. differences noriega regime central american country have received quota metric tons 21-month period ending sept. quarter share has already been reallocated according industry remaining tons are still lucrative target growers current u.s. price cents pound runs as much nickel pound world rate potential sales are nearly house majority whip william gray d. pa began bidding year proposing language quota be allocated english-speaking countries caribbean such jamaica barbados rep. jerry lewis conservative californian added provision own intended assist bolivia senate then broadened list further including countries u.s. caribbean basin initiate as well philippines backed powerful hawaii democrat sen. daniel inouye jamaica wary upsetting caribbean basin allies has apparently instructed lobbyist abandon provision initially drafted mr. gray greater question is mr. inouye has strong ties sugar industry is able insert claim philippines separate floor action house waived budget restrictions gave quick approval supplemental appropriations law enforcement anti-drug programs fiscal funding is attached estimated transportation bill goes next senate carries proposed permanent smoking ban virtually u.s. domestic airline flights leadership hopes move compromise measure promptly white house recent days senate has been as likely bounce bills back house most recent example was nearly fiscal bill funding state justice commerce departments losing battle tuesday night senate foreign relations committee appropriators houses are expected be forced back conference