dollar finished lower yesterday tracking rollercoaster session wall street concern volatile u.s. stock market had faded recent sessions traders appeared content let dollar languish narrow range tomorrow preliminary report third-quarter u.s. gross national product is released seesaw gyrations dow jones industrial average yesterday put wall street back spotlight inspired market participants bid u.s. unit lower ual decision remain independent company sent share prices tumbling midmorning djia had plunged points foreign-exchange dealers quickly drove dollar djia modestly rebounded dollar bounced choppy dealings ended day levels late monday stock prices meanwhile posted significant gains later trading closed down only points day dealers said market strong reaction wall street reflects general uneasiness dollar added djia swift drop proved easy excuse market drive u.s. currency direction was already headed late new york trading yesterday dollar was quoted marks down marks monday yen down yen late monday sterling was quoted up late monday tokyo wednesday u.s. currency opened trading yen down tuesday tokyo close yen tom trettien vice president banque paribas new york sees break dollar long-term upward trend trend began january argues dollar is now moving sideways adding next leg be beginning longer term bearish phase analysts peg dollar recent weakness underlying slowdown u.s. economy highlighted recent economic data particularly surprisingly sharp widening august u.s. trade gap also point narrowing interest-rate differentials u.s. major trading partners tend make u.s. currency less attractive foreign investors several spurts dollar trading was noted mark-yen cross trade grabbed much market attention following dive u.s. stocks mark has strengthened more major counterparts traders attribute mark surge robust west german economy higher rate differentials add mark strength is part reflection shift away u.s. assets japanese investors west german investments question remains much west german market absorb says senior dealer dealers say bank japan governor satoshi sumita reassurance japanese monetary policy n't be changed time being has given investors added excuse push yen down even further mark yen weakness respect mark tokyo traders say do n't expect bank japan take action support japanese currency front meanwhile sterling slumped news united kingdom posted wider-than-expected trade deficit september news also knocked british unit marks london bout short-covering helped sterling recoup earlier losses commodity exchange new york gold current delivery jumped ounce close was highest aug. estimated volume was light ounces early trading hong kong wednesday gold was quoted ounce