several new york stock exchange own listed companies led giant contel corp. are joining first time complain program trading exchange role claiming program trading has turned big board gambling casino contel chairman charles wohlstetter said least other corporate executives are forming unprecedented alliance group mr. wohlstetter said interview wants end market wild price swings critics blame computer-aided program-trading strategies group complain washington heads program-trading firms heads big board said call exchange trump east charged mr. wohlstetter 79-year-old founder contel 's also former investment banker stock trader is mission financial community help scavengers schemers help corporate america contel is telephone electronics company pressure has been building big board past weeks do something market volatility many investors say is caused program trading market friday-the-13th plunge points dow jones industrial average big board understated response galvanized longstanding dissatisfaction companies listed exchange last month program trading accounted record % average daily big board volume mr. wohlstetter example said wrote big board chairman john j. phelan jr. program trading 190-point dow plunge previous queries get back is gobbledygook said 's upset mr. phelan trying calm investors plunge said investors simply have get used market big price swings big board is partly blame price swings 're cowards said mr. wohlstetter powerful members manage focus outcry has been stock-index arbitrage accounts program trading goes index arbitragers argue trading is healthy links markets critics say such trading accelerates market movements increases chance crash big board has refused be drawn public debate program trading richard grasso big board president last week said only exchange is concerned constituents privately exchange officials worry hospitable system program trading big board billions dollars trading simply migrate overseas exchanges such london is partly reason exchange last week began trading own stock basket product allows big investors buy sell stocks standard poor index single trade intended customer new basket product is index arbitragers according exchange investors have complained time program trading particularly index arbitrage little avail according big board traders organized campaign exchange-listed companies make exchange finally consider big changes n't fight listed companies now assault is said top trader big board n't ban stock-index futures course ban use high-speed electronic trading system program trading least encourage securities firms back exchange put bit damper program trading last year simply started publish monthly statistics firm program-trading volume contel mr. wohlstetter said group big board companies is n't ready go public yet effort does n't plan be leader is public however said planned spend weekend making calls gather additional support mr. wohlstetter said has been talking are sanford weill primerica corp. is parent smith barney harris upham co. gte corp. james johnson itt corp. rand araskog none chief executives were available comment targets big board companies campaign be corporate pension funds use program-trading strategies maximize returns investments contel part company month informed money managers drop give business program-trading firms was just kinds ultimatums last week succeeded turning heat debate kemper corp. kemper financial services unit said cut bear stearns morgan stanley oppenheimer general electric co. kidder peabody co. unit firms kidder is second-biggest program trader wall street quickly announced pull-backs index arbitrage kidder officials stand aggressive use program trading chief executive officer michael carpenter said outcry even kidder own brokers believes index arbitrage does n't have negative impact market whole however pressure kidder parent ge change kidder policy ge chairman john welch has been besieged phone calls complaining unit program trading according person close