investor harold simmons nl industries inc. offered acquire georgia gulf corp. share about stepping pressure commodity chemicals concern offer follows earlier proposal nl mr. simmons help georgia gulf restructure go private transaction pay shareholders share georgia gulf rebuffed offer september said study other alternatives however has n't yet made proposals shareholders late yesterday georgia gulf said reviewed nl proposal as well interests third parties regarding business combinations georgia gulf said has n't eliminated alternatives discussions are being held interested parties work is also continuing other various transactions did n't elaborate analysts saw latest offer as proof mr. simmons aggressive persistent investor n't leave georgia gulf alone kind transaction is completed has clamped ankle pit bull says paul leming vice president morgan stanley co appears be long haul mr. simmons nl already own % stake georgia gulf mr. simmons owns % valhi inc. turn owns two-thirds nl nl is officially making offer mr. leming was n't surprised lower price cited nl saying believes share is most pay georgia gulf becomes bad acquisition georgia gulf stock rose share yesterday close share nl shares closed unchanged valhi rose cents new york stock exchange composite trading j. landis martin nl president chief executive officer said nl mr. simmons cut price were proposing georgia gulf initially planned transaction included about equity substantial amount high-yield subordinated debt however junk-bond market has collapsed recent weeks lessening likelihood such transaction succeed now said group plans put several dollars equity finance remainder bank debt also said group reduced offer was n't allowed see georgia gulf confidential financial information agreeing n't make offer had georgia gulf consent letter georgia gulf president jerry r. satrum mr. martin asked georgia gulf answer offer tuesday was n't clear nl mr. simmons respond georgia gulf spurns again mr. martin said have n't yet decided next move be did n't rule possibility consent solicitation aimed replacing georgia gulf board other transactions mr. simmons has followed friendly offers hostile tender offer georgia gulf has n't been eager negotiate mr. simmons nl specialty chemicals concern group apparently believes company management is interested kind transaction management group owns about % stock most purchased nominal prices stand gain millions dollars company were sold third quarter georgia gulf earned share down share fewer shares outstanding sales fell