seemed innocent enough last april steven b. iken visited justin products inc. here identified potential customer got word little company new cassette players children is almost identical sony product mr. iken remarked seeing prototypes pictures replied justin salesman exactly justin merchandise carried wholesale prices % sony corp. japan my first sony line visitor waxed enthusiastic promised return instead new customer part hoped-for bonanza underselling sony justin got costly legal morass mr. iken turned was private detective using hidden tape recorder gather information sony recording later turned court exhibit seeking keep justin my own product line u.s. market sony last may filed suit manhattan federal court accusing upstart trademark infringement unfair competition other violations business law then life has changed lot 61-year-old leonard kaye justin owner have n't been able get decent night sleep has been going says 's most distracting thing life n't even attend business company annual sales suffer costly blow losing estimated % total sales sony annual sales prevails justin plight shows happen tiny company suddenly faces full legal might wrathful multinational considerable irony case also shows completely japan has turned tables u.s. business americans used complain bitterly being undersold look-alike products japan now sony innovative premium-priced products are most admired consumer electronics is bitterly complaining little u.s. firm cheap look-alike produced china gist is justin knocked sony line sony wants stop says lewis h. eslinger sony attorney previously guarded rubik cube sony declines comment sony wins mr. eslinger says little rival have try sell products overseas worst adds have grind throw away mr. kaye denies suit charges says only mistake was taking sony marketplace made similar line produced cheaper says today u.s. judge john e. sprizzo is expected rule sony renewed request pre-trial order blocking sale disputed products deliveries began july judge turned earlier sony request order decision upheld appeal sony returned additional evidence arguments hoping settle case justin vows fight necessary battle is more justin bargained had idea was getting so deep says mr. kaye founded justin mr. kaye had sold capetronic inc. taiwan electronics maker retired only find was bored justin began selling toys electronics made mostly hong kong beginning mickey mouse radios company has grown employees initially mr. kaye says justin has been profitable adds official shares office numerous teddy bears samples line plush toys many others mr. kaye took notice sony classic example market segmentation changed plastic skin buttons famous walkman line portable audio equipment created my first sony line children brightly colored new products looked more toys adult models court papers sony says has spent more promote line resulting sales units sony found new market niche mr. kaye figured prices left plenty room lower-priced competitor products are n't exact copies sony strongly resemble size shape especially color sony uses mostly red blue traces yellow so does justin theory kids prefer colors to be successful product be color whatsoever as long is fire-engine red says charles e. baxley justin attorney last winter justin was showing prototypes toy fairs hong kong new york sony noticed indeed concerned sony sales personnel were threatening legal action other retaliation such withholding desirable sony products justin customers mr. baxley fired letter sony april threatened take matter federal trade commission u.s. justice department justin has n't pursued charges were merit according mr. eslinger sony attorney recalls mr. baxley purpose was influence leave alone never intended taking sony do n't have resources sony answered empty threat real suit then companies have skirmished court justin news release says once competitive sony now resorts strong-arm tactics american courtrooms carve protect niche markets sony lawyer insists company tactics including use private detective posing buyer are routine such matters also insists sony no less others has legal right protect trade dress case mostly colors claims make my first sony products distinctive justin claims began using same colors electronic goods children long sony entered children market merits sony aggressive defense is debilitating justin 's also costly mr. kaye says has paid more legal fees so far sony mr. kaye says know 's way lose just keep digging deeper reach point give go away now though vows hang