wall street is retreating computer-driven program trading big institutional investors are likely continue strategies full blast further roiling stock market trading executives say bowing mounting public outcry more major securities firms bear stearns co. inc. morgan stanley co. oppenheimer co. announced friday suspend stock-index arbitrage trading own accounts painewebber group inc. announced pullback thursday stock-index arbitrage controversial program-trading strategy blamed many investors encouraging big stock-market swings trading halts are offered sign concern recent stock market volatility most wall street firms remain open handle program trading customers trading executives privately say huge stock-index funds dwarf wall street firms terms size program trades continue launch big programs stock market wells fargo investment advisers bankers trust co. mellon capital management are top stock-index arbitrage clients wall street trading executives say huge stock-index funds build portfolios match s&p stock index other stock indexes frequently swap stocks futures capture profits do chance get said program-trading executive consequently abrupt swings stock market are not likely disappear anytime soon say fact wall street firms trading own accounts stock-index arbitrage trading opportunities big funds be more abundant more customers come now said james cayne president bear stearns cos executives manage funds see current debate program trading repeat concern expressed crash noted studies completed crash exonerated program trading source volatility issues are now being raised classic anti-intellectual fashion fly face number post-crash studies said fred grauer chairman wells fargo investment advisers bankers trust spokesman said company investment arm uses stock-index arbitrage enhance investors returns officials mellon capital were unavailable comment stock-index funds have grown popularity past decade pension funds other institutional investors have sought low-cost way match performance stock market whole many money managers trade stock actively have trouble consistently matching returns stock-index funds are huge wells fargo investment advisers example managed stock investments tracking s* end june according standard poor corp mr. grauer said is used active index arbitrage stock-index funds frequently use futures markets hedging tool is far less aggressive strategy stock-index arbitrage traders buy sell big blocks stocks offsetting trades stock-index futures profit price differences 190-point plunge stock market oct. has heightened concerns volatility signs economic slowdown softer corporate earnings troubles takeover financing have contributed stock market recent weakness many investors rushed blame program trading aggravating market swings wall street firms pullback followed recent blacklisting several institutional investors last tuesday kemper corp. kemper financial services inc. unit said no longer trade firms committed stock-index arbitrage including later suspended stock-index arbitrage trading friday phoenix mutual life insurance co. founders asset management inc. also cut brokerage firms engage program trading is still doing stock-index arbitrage trades customers morgan stanley trading halt own account is likely shake firms such kidder peabody co. still do such trades own account morgan stanley has consistently been top stock-index arbitrage traders recent months indeed morgan stanley president richard b. fisher said firm is putting money form group regulators investors investment banks find stock-index arbitrage artificially induces stock-market volatility have clear issues find is present is creating artificial volatility mr. fisher said is question investor confidence stock market is critical joining call kind study regulatory action merrill lynch co. recommended program-trading reforms late friday including higher margins stock-index futures greater regulatory coordination separately mr. cayne bear stearns said firm is working regulators balance margin requirements enhance stabilization margin rules determine minimum amount cash investor put buying security current rules permit investors put less cash futures stocks observers say different rules governing stock futures markets are partly responsible volatility rules say permit faster cheaper trading futures stocks frequently knocks markets line stock-index arbitrage sells more expensive market buys cheaper attempts reestablish link stock futures markets adjustments are often abrupt unequal trading rules allow futures market trade differently stocks invites frequent bouts stock-index arbitrage first place has be better coordination regulatory basis said christopher pedersen director trading twenty-first securities corp agency have authority equity products