short interest new york stock exchange declined second consecutive month time % american stock exchange reported third consecutive record month short interest big board reported short interest dropped shares oct. shares mid-september amex short interest climbed % shares shares year-earlier month big board reported shares indicating % year-to-year rise amex reported shares % leap amex short interest has been heading upward mid-december increases month then mid-july traders sell short borrow stock sell betting stock price decline buy shares back later lower price return lender short interest is number shares have n't yet been purchased return lenders substantial short position reflects heavy speculation stock price decline investors consider increase short interest bullish borrowed shares eventually be bought back fluctuation short interest certain stocks also be caused partly arbitraging figures occasionally include incomplete transactions restricted stock level negative sentiment measured big board short interest ratio slipped last month ratio is number trading days exchange average trading volume be required convert total short interest position analysts suggest however ratio has weakened value indicator options other products be used hedge short positions varity corp. led big board list largest short volumes shares varity has proposed acquire k-h corp. consisting auto parts division debt fruehauf corp. cash securities chemical waste management posted biggest increase short volume new york exchange up shares bristol-myers squibb co. entity formed recent acquisition squibb corp. bristol-myers co. logged largest volume decline shares short interest international business machines corp. plunged shares shares month earlier also closely watched is exxon corp. short interest slid shares percentage basis germany fund inc. led gainers leaping shares shares transcanada pipelines ltd. led percentage decliners dropping shares amex short interest volume leader again was texas air corp. rising shares bolar pharmaceutical co. posted largest volume increase shares company is investigation concerning procedures gain food drug administration approval generic drugs bolar has denied wrongdoing largest volume drop down shares came shares represented b.a.t industries plc american depositary receipts company is facing takeover proposal financier sir james goldsmith first iberian fund led percentage increases rising shares nelson holdings international ltd. dropped most percentage basis shares adjacent tables show big board amex issues short interest position least shares existed mid-october was short position change least shares mid-september