common cause asked senate ethics committee justice department investigate political gifts arizona businessman charles keating u.s. senators interceded thrift-industry regulators mr. keating is currently subject federal anti-racketeering lawsuit accusing bleeding assets california thrift controlled lincoln savings loan association driving insolvency fred wertheimer president common cause self-styled citizens lobby said mr. keating already has conceded attempting buy influence lawmakers democratic sens. dennis deconcini arizona alan cranston california john glenn ohio donald riegle michigan gop sen. john mccain arizona mr. wertheimer based statement mr. keating was quoted wall street journal story april question had do financial support way influenced several political figures take cause want say most forceful way certainly hope so highly unusual meeting sen. deconcini office april senators asked federal regulators ease lincoln according notes taken participants meeting regulators said lincoln was gambling dangerously depositors federally insured money was ticking time bomb mr. keating had complained regulators were being too zealous notes show sen. deconcini called federal home loan bank board regulations grossly unfair sen. glenn insisted mr. keating thrift was viable profitable next years bank board time was agency responsible regulating thrifts failed act even federal auditors warned may mr. keating had caused lincoln become insolvent lincoln parent company american continental corp. entered bankruptcy-law proceedings april regulators seized thrift next day newly formed resolution trust corp. successor bank board filed suit mr. keating several others sept. mr. keating has filed own suit alleging property was taken illegally cost taxpayers lincoln collapse has been estimated as much details affair have become public gradually past years mostly result reporting several newspapers midst re-election campaign sen. riegle chairman senate banking committee returned contributions detroit newspaper said mr. keating had gathered money weeks meeting regulators sen. deconcini months fending intense press criticism returned only last month shortly government formally accused mr. keating defrauding lincoln addition sen. mccain last week disclosed belatedly had paid american continental reimbursement trips family took corporate jet mr. keating vacation home cat cay bahamas sen. mccain said had meant pay trips time matter fell cracks mr. keating family members associates also donated sen. mccain congressional campaigns years according press accounts sen. mccain says mr. keating broke friendship abruptly senator refused press thrift executive case as vigorously mr. keating wanted became very angry left office told number people was wimp sen. mccain recalls july california newspapers disclosed mr. keating gave corporate funds tax-exempt voter registration organizations behest sen. cranston conceded soliciting money was pretty stupid thing do politically addition sen. cranston received campaign donations mr. keating california democratic party received corporate donations get-out-the-vote drive benefited senator re-election campaign year also july ohio newspapers disclosed corporate donations mr. keating national council public policy political committee controlled sen. glenn was addition direct campaign donations arranged mr. keating ohio senator mr. wertheimer said senate ethics committee hire special outside counsel conduct investigation was done case former house speaker james wright wilson abney staff director ethics panel n't comment sen. riegle said cooperate inquiry conduct had been entirely proper sen. mccain said had been deeply concerned time meeting seem be improper decided was entirely appropriate seek fair treatment constituent sen. glenn said had already made complete disclosure role affair am completely satisfied let matter rest hands senate ethics committee sen. deconcini said is said done expect be fully exonerated sen. cranston had already volunteered help federal bureau investigation investigation mr. keating portrayed role prodding regulators act did n't bank board act sooner said is common cause ask be investigated