private dinner thursday drexel burnham lambert inc. chief executive frederick joseph delivered sobering message junk bond market officials prudential insurance co. america mr. joseph conceded junk market was disarray according people familiar discussion said drexel leading underwriter high-risk junk bonds no longer afford sell junk offerings later become troubled drexel risked losing highly lucrative junk franchise dinner was stark confirmation is worst year ever junk market investors traders alike say current turmoil take years resolve market disorder even drexel has widest most loyal following junk bond investors is pulling horns big investment bank still dominates junk market drexel has been unable stem fallout growing junk bond defaults withdrawn new offerings redemptions shareholders junk bond mutual funds exodus once-devoted investors many money managers past months have been humiliating is worst shakeout ever junk market take years 's over says mark bachmann senior vice president standard poor corp. credit rating company third quarter example junk bonds less investment-grade rating showed negative returns only major sector bond market do so end last year junk bonds have been outperformed categories investment-grade bonds including ultra-safe treasury securities junk market mushroomed less start decade has been declining months issuers have stumbled weight hefty interest payments fragile market received biggest jolt last month campeau corp. created u.s. retailing empire more junk financing campeau developed cash squeeze caused be tardy interest payments put prestigious bloomingdale department store chain up sale point junk market went tailspin buyers disappeared investors tried sell interview mr. joseph says dinner discussion prudential executives acknowledged problems junk thought was saying is market is troubled still viable appropriately enough quite quality-conscious is not bad says nobody 's been perfect credit judgments past couple years 're going make sure default rates are going be acceptable parameters market has jolted many junk buyers is sudden realization junk bonds not necessarily be bought sold ease common stocks many investment-grade bonds new york stock exchange buyers sellers are quickly matched junk market risky corporate loans are traded is sometimes closed repairs closely held deltec securities corp. junk bond money managers amy k. minella hannah h. strasser say problems junk market go deeper temporary malaise recent months say has been heavy selling junk bonds market traditional investors new buyers have n't materialized replace wall street securities firms primary source liquidity high yield market have been net sellers junk bonds because trading losses deltec said recent grim report customers mutual funds have also been net sellers junk bonds junk relatively poor performance negative press coverage have produced above-normal redemptions shareholders deltec said investors trying raise cash have sold large liquid issues such rjr holdings corp. kroger co. declines benchmark issues have contributed market distress deltec said buying has been severely reduced savings loans have been restricted junk purchases recently passed congressional legislation fact savings loans were sellers high yield holdings quarter deltec said ms. minella ms. strasser say are managing junk portfolios defensively building cash selectively upgrading overall quality meanwhile prudential nation largest insurer biggest investor junk bonds has seen value junk bond portfolio drop august falling junk prices certainly do have lack liquidity here 's something be concerned says james a. gregoire managing director have reason think things get worse market has knack surprising market teaches be humble junk market yield hogs are learning real painful lesson says majority junk bonds outstanding show signs default market has downgraded many junk issues were trouble says stuart reese manager aetna life casualty insurance co. investment-grade public bond portfolio think risks are there things getting lot worse risks are n't appropriate says big insurer prudential owns only about publicly sold junk bonds string big junk bond defaults have been major cause market problems year probably persist analysts say anything 're going see defaults increase credit ratings have declined says paul asquith associate professor massachusetts institute technology sloan school management mr. asquith study junk bond defaults caused furor wall street was disclosed last april says year junk bond defaults already show high correlation own findings study showed junk bonds time had cumulative default rate % indication growing number junk defaults mr. asquith says is half corporate bonds outstanding have been lowered default rating s&p year are junk bonds sold market big issue years bonds now rated single-d include junk offerings ap industries columbia savings colorado first texas savings association gilbraltar financial corp. integrated resources inc. metropolitan broadcasting corp. resorts international inc. southmark corp. vyquest inc obviously got lot more smoke fire people told market was n't so risky says bradford cornell professor finance university california anderson graduate school management los angeles mr. cornell has just completed study finds risks returns junk bonds are less common stocks more investment-grade bonds mr. cornell says junk market is bonanza drexel claimed also is n't disaster doomsayers say junk market problems drexel continues enjoy loyalty junk bond investors wall street rivals have n't found past weeks example drexel has sold new junk bonds turner broadcasting co. uniroyal chemical continental air duff phelps still list troubled drexel bond offerings dwarfs firm wall street does successful offerings troubled drexel-underwritten issues include resorts international braniff integrated resources sci tv gillette holdings western electric southmark quality junk bonds continue trade well says michael holland chairman salomon brothers asset management inc deals never have been brought have now become nuclear waste