battle were movie producers be fighting scripts nothing opening scene common opener sony corp. agree buy columbia pictures entertainment inc. transaction valued close shortly sony offer buy guber-peters entertainment co. offer co-chairmen peter guber jon peters chance run columbia mr. peters fly new york intention telling warner communications inc. chairman steven j. ross guber-peters planned end five-year contract produce movies exclusively warner 's scripts diverge affidavits filed los angeles superior court connection breach-of-contract suit warner brought sony hiring producers mr. guber mr. peters tell story warner tells affidavits mr. peters says was shocked mr. ross refused meeting made clear stop mr. peters claims reminded mr. ross robert daly terry semel top executives warner brothers studio had repeatedly agreed had right accept offer such sony response mr. peters says mr. ross referred colleagues warner obscenity said tell do n't have job take warner denies mr. ross ever said such thing fact denies virtually everything mr. guber mr. peters say affidavits tomorrow warner file batch documents contending essence everything guys are saying is basically lies says warner chief outside counsel stuart rabinowitz thursday judge is scheduled rule warner motion seeking block guber-peters duo going columbia battery legal documents filed past week connection suit provide peek inner workings hollywood dogfight also make clear first thing judge have decide is version events morass is fiction fact matter never even be tried court warner says really wants is producers fulfill contractual obligations bitterness battle accusations flying sides make unlikely decade-long relationship warner most prolific producers ever be repaired warner is process merging time warner inc. says is willing settle matter court far however sony has n't been willing meet considerable financial demands mr. guber mr. peters do n't have much gain protracted battle sony part decide cost warner settlement court fight is too high choosing instead find someone else run columbia too be costly given financial arrangement already guaranteed mr. guber mr. peters case mr. guber mr. peters not suffer financially be left dream job running studio considerably scarred relationship warner center court fight be differing interpretations written contract warner producers other murkier issues play big role sony guber-peters team are hanging much case warner willingness last year release producers contract oral agreement say allowed terminate current written contract opportunity run major studio came warner denies agreement was made disputes guber-peters version virtually telephone call meeting sides had matter just rancorous relationship has become is clear differing versions sides current business dealings mr. guber mr. peters say affidavits warner already is taking steps freeze projects warner notably sylvester stallone film tango cash mr. peters says affidavit movie staff was told last week warner was taking picture producer be giving orders objections mr. peters says film release date was moved many months december plans soundtrack worth millions dollars were dropped hubert de la bouillaire editor film backs mr. peters separate sworn declaration mr. de la bouillaire says warner brothers production president mark canton called oct. said mr. peters is picture calls just tell everything is fine editor also says new producer film bruce baird told editors screen picture telling stars sylvester stallone kurt russell mr. peters less know easier is someone asks just lie tell be done mr. de la bouillaire says mr. baird told says warner mr. rabinowitz is total % lie movie says is post-production stages cleaning film says mr. peters mr. guber contractual producers consultation rights have been invited screenings give input film dozens guber-peters staffers are still working warner lot consulting various projects daily basis attorney says mr. guber affidavit says advised warner president terry semel sony offer lunch sept. mr. semel hugged congratulated expressed joy had finally realized long-term ambition running having equity position major entertainment company mr. guber says brought lunch release document warner had agreed mr. peters made aborted bid buy part entertainment co. run mgm studio mr. guber says had crossed mgm red pen written columbia giving document mr. semel mr. semel said absolutely nothing indicate warner have objection assuming management positions columbia mr. guber says mr. semel affidavit does n't mention hugging congratulating says told mr. guber n't sign documents deal apparently good mr. peters have very negative impact warner said contact mr. ross warner brothers chairman robert daly conference call agreed n't let producers contract mr. ross own affidavit says mr. daly instructed mr. semel tell producers warner n't terminate agreement mr. guber says mr. semel did convey information mr. semel said mr. ross was crazy time deal meaning mr. guber says mr. ross did not want communicate new merger partner time inc. warner agreements provided departure circumstances mr. guber also says affidavit mr. daly told even sony did not want warner relationship already was irreparably damaged was way put egg together sue sony tons money moreover mr. guber claims mr. semel told mr. ross probably n't object were anybody other sony sony is problem guber-peters side has said warner is particularly concerned prospect huge japanese company controlling important segments u.s. entertainment business hollywood suggest mr. guber mr. peters took encouragement warner studio executives such mr. semel mr. canton too literally according theory warner executives hoping strengthen relationships producers encouraged mr. guber mr. peters ambitions build major entertainment company warner executives affidavits deny ever telling producers get written contract mr. rabinowitz warner attorney says studio still wants producers come back fulfill contract are mini-studio have projects development warner says mr. guber indicates affidavit not projects be used example says mr. peters have developed movie projects warner has passed chosen not produce least projects remaining warner mr. guber says mr. semel informed warner producers have already started feeding frenzy projects