are last words abbie hoffman ever uttered more less killed are there sort abbie 'm ok jack 'm ok listening 'm bed got feet floor feet see wednesday thursday listens impassively abbie cont'd. always be jack do n't worry abbie lies leaves frame empty course was n't actual conversation late anti-war activist protest leader founder yippies ever had brother 's script pieced together interviews cbs news re-enactment dramatic rendering actor mr. hoffman 's ultimately unsuccessful struggle depression segment is soon be broadcast cbs news series saturday night connie chung thus further blurring distinction fiction reality tv news is new journalism come television ms. chung program is just several network shows many more syndication rely controversial technique reconstructing events using actors are supposed resemble real people living dead ms. chung however is said be only network news program history employ casting directors abbie hoffman case is be played hollywood actor paul lieber is n't new character was mr. hoffman los angeles production play called chicago conspiracy trial television news course has always been part show-biz broadcasters have healthy appreciation role entertainment values play captivating audience cbs broadcast group president howard stringer puts network now needs broaden horizons nonfiction television includes experimentation premiere sept. show ms. chung appears has used actor portray rev. vernon johns civil-rights leader one play teenage drug dealer has depicted bombing pan am flight scottish town lockerbie oct. did rendition kidnapping imprisonment associated press correspondent terry anderson was abducted march is believed be held lebanon production had actors playing mr. anderson former hostages david jacobsen rev. benjamin weir father lawrence jenco abc news has similarly branched entertainment gimmickry prime time live new show season featuring sam donaldson diane sawyer has studio audience applauds night embarrassment network waved camera crowd let 's make a deal abc stops short using applause sign comic warm audience stars do nbc news has produced episodes occasional series produced sid feders called yesterday today and tomorrow starring maria shriver chuck scarborough mary alice williams also gives work actors call fad call wave future nbc re-creations are produced cosgrove-meurer productions also makes successful prime-time nbc entertainment series unsolved mysteries marriage news theater not exactly inevitable has been consummated nonetheless news programs particularly score well ratings appeal networks cost-conscious corporate parents are so much less expensive produce entertainment show is somewhere one-hour program entertainment shows tend cost twice re-enactments have been used successfully several seasons such syndicated tabloid tv shows a current affair is produced fox broadcasting co. unit rupert murdoch news corp show host is ms. chung husband maury povich has particular penchant grisly murders stories having do sex robert chambers murder case rob lowe tapes have gerald stone executive producer a current affair says have opened eyes being little less conservative more imaginative present news nowhere have eyes been opened wider cbs news w. 57th st. manhattan floor offices 60 minutes most successful prime-time news program ever actors wait reception area audition saturday night connie chung cbs news sends scripts agents pass clients network deals lot unknowns including scott wentworth portrayed mr. anderson bill alton father jenco network has big names contend too james earl jones is cast play rev. mr. johns ned beatty portray former california gov. pat brown forthcoming epsiode caryl chessman last man be executed california saturday night has cast actors appear future stories ranging abortion rights teen-agers nov. segment man named willie bosket calls monster is reputed be toughest prisoner new york cbs news as recently years ago fired hundreds employees budget cutbacks now hires featured actors beginning week is n't much compared bill cosby makes even connie chung matter is paid year recently did guest shot own sitcom murphy brown money is n't peanuts either particularly news program cbs news is also re-enacting three mile island nuclear accident middletown pa. something less cast thousands is combing town about extras oct. town mayor robert reid made announcement behalf cbs half-time middletown high school football game asking volunteers was roll laughter stands says joe sukle editor weekly press journal middletown 're filming right now bank street want shots people getting cars kids skateboards are approaching everyone street asking want be docudrama mr. sukle says n't dream participating way think re-enactments stink re-enactment have flavor hollywood hudson is n't producers seem tentative technique squeamish even results not news are n't exactly theater either least not good theater people do think acting scripts is n't worthy cbs news once lent prestige network set standards industry review saturday night with connie chung tom shales tv critic washington post generally admirer cbs wrote show is impressive has wonder is proper direction network news division take re-creating events has general upset news traditionalists including former cbs news president richard s. salant former nbc news president reuven frank former cbs news anchorman walter cronkite new dean columbia university graduate school journalism joan konner says add dramatizations 's longer news 's drama has place network news broadcast never be on never criticism abbie hoffman segment is particularly scathing people knew loved man includes companion years johanna lawrenson as well former wife anita women say also find distasteful cbs news is apparently concentrating mr. hoffman problems manic-depressive is dangerous misrepresents abbie life says ms. lawrenson has had advance look 36-page script 's sensational piece someone is not here defend mrs. hoffman says dramatization makes truth flexible takes person account gives authenticity cbs news interviewed jack hoffman sister phyllis as well mr. hoffman landlord solebury township pa also jonathan silvers collaborated mr. hoffman books mr. silvers says wanted be interviewed get abbie story out maybe talking illness do good executive producer saturday night connie chung andrew lack declines discuss re-creactions practice show particular do n't talk work says president cbs news david w. burke did n't return numerous telephone calls person close process says not be best interest cbs news comment work progress such hoffman re-creation says cbs news is aware concerns ms. lawrenson mr. hoffman former wife woman was invited cbs news participate round-table discussion mr. hoffman is follow re-enactment mr. lieber actor plays mr. hoffman says was concerned first script misrepresent astute political mind admired concerns were allayed producers says did good job depicting someone had done so much was also manic-depressive