stunning shift direction provigo inc. said sell non-food operations concentrate solely retail wholesale grocery business non-food operations accounted % provigo canadian dollars sales latest fiscal year related move pierre lortie chairman chief executive resigned mr. lortie joined provigo spearheaded company drive grow traditional food business n't be reached comment bertin nadeau newly appointed chairman interim chief executive provigo n't say mr. lortie was asked leave mr. lortie felt less pertinent mr. nadeau said given decision dump provigo non-food operations stage was felt was perhaps more pertinent chief executive mr. nadeau also is chairman chief executive unigesco inc. provigo controlling shareholder news conference mr. nadeau said sale non-food businesses account nearly company assets be completed matter months units are nationwide pharmaceutical health-products distributor small sporting-goods chain combination catalog showroom toy-store chain investors analysts applauded news provigo was most active industrial stock montreal exchange closed up canadian cents think 's pretty positive development said ross cowan financial analyst levesque beaubien geoffrion inc. decision concentrate groceries mr. lortie departure sudden was seen inevitable light shift strategy non-food operations were largely mr. lortie creation strategy did n't work said steven holt financial analyst midland doherty ltd provigo profit record past years tarnished company mr. lortie reputations months ended aug. provigo posted net income canadian cents share compared canadian cents share year earlier sales were compared last month canadian bond rating service downgraded provigo commercial paper debentures lackluster performance analysts are skeptical provigo be able sell non-food businesses group least book value are expecting write-downs mr. nadeau said n't yet say sale prices match book values said non-food operations are profitable mr. nadeau said discussions are way potential purchasers units declined confirm deny reports provigo executive henri roy is trying put together management buy-out catalogue showroom unit mr. roy n't be reached yvon bussieres was named senior executive vice president chief operating officer provigo new position mr. bussieres was president chief operating officer provigo quebec retail wholesale grocery unit mr. nadeau said intends remain provigo chief executive only non-food businesses are sold new chief executive be named