house joined senate making federal reparations japanese-americans held world war ii internment camps legal entitlement requiring treasury department meet expedited payments estimated next several years 249-166 roll call came chamber approved compromise bill allocating departments state justice commerce fiscal imposing increased fees business interests making filings government estimated come annually new charge pre-merger notifications justice department securities exchange commission filing fees rise % fund increase agency budget yesterday vote japanese-american reparations ensures final enactment entitlement provision abandons earlier efforts find offsetting cuts is seen more realistic path expediting compensation first authorized only way reduce costs is say do n't want pay bill said rep. neal smith d. iowa taunted president bush party back campaign promise supporting claims individual read lips said mr. smith 're paying claims do n't know anyone oppose payments be made year beginning fiscal bill commits government annual payments as much total liability is met issue has assumed character past civil-rights debates reopens old regional divisions democratic majority as much republicans led opposition democrats voting treating payments entitlement came states old dixiecrat south borders odd mix departments underlying bill makes more eclectic annual appropriations measures is lightning rod running battle fate legal services corp measure provides maintain services sharply curb power current board successors are agreed bush administration conservative bent incumbent appointees named former president reagan has divided republicans back-to-back roll calls 206-199 223-178 appropriations committee leadership turned efforts weaken strip proposed restrictions first added sen. warren rudman r. n.h. estimated new pre-merger notification fee be divided justice department antitrust division federal trade commission face serious cuts income is n't realized federal bureau investigation is slated receive charging fingerprint services civil cases judiciary rely bankruptcy charges including % increase current filing fee total bill does n't include estimated supplemental anti-drug funds approved house-senate conference yesterday rush money is already provoking jealousy states competing assistance house agreed defer year scheduled % increase required state matching funds law-enforcement grants 287-123 margin chamber stripped senate initiative raise minimum grant smaller states such new hampshire delaware few are more powerful competition funds appropriations committees including authors gramm-rudman-hollings deficit-reduction law house-senate conference yesterday bill rescinded unexpended funds fort worth texas economic development project backed former speaker james wright sen. phil gramm r. texas insisted last week money be preserved measure includes secured mr. rudman marine-research project university new hampshire sen. ernest hollings d. s.c used power add advanced technology initiative commerce department was addition more parochial authorization health center south carolina upheld 273-121 vote house last night