bally manufacturing corp. new york developer donald trump have agreed principle settlement shareholder litigation stemming bally alleged greenmail payment mr. trump according lawyers familiar settlement talks verbal agreement end lawsuit filed more years ago was reached last week soon be submitted federal judge camden n.j february bally thwarted possible hostile takeover bid mr. trump agreeing buy mr. trump bally shares more market price term greenmail refers situation company pays premium market value repurchase stake held potential acquirer lawyers shareholders bally mr. trump declined talk publicly proposed settlement citing request federal court magistrate not reveal details agreement is completed attorneys are familiar matter said payment be shared bally mr. trump casino hotel concern probably paying bulk money amount bally mr. trump pay settle class-action suit pales comparison walt disney co. saul steinberg reliance group holdings inc. agreed pay settle similar suit july settlement represented first time shareholders were granted major payment greenmail case mr. steinberg made profit sale disney investment company lawyers said mr. steinberg probably faced much more potential liability sued disney takeover battle filed behalf shareholders disney offered pay mr. steinberg premium shares new york investor did n't demand company also pay premium other shareholders mr. trump sued bally sued only behalf mr. trump bally also appeared have leverage case because state delaware bally is incorporated courts have held greenmail is often protected business-judgment rule rule gives boards directors wide latitude deciding deal dissident shareholders senate hears final arguments impeachment trial federal judge yesterday u.s. judge alcee hastings faced jury full u.s. senate said am not guilty having committed crime articles impeachment florida judge few blacks u.s. bench were approved house august central charge judge hastings is conspired washington lawyer obtain bribe defendants criminal case judge return leniency is also accused lying oath leaking information obtained wiretap supervised senate public gallery was packed judge hastings supporters erupted applause finished argument judge hastings was acquitted similar charges federal jury claims is being victimized impeachment proceedings constitute double jeopardy rep. john bryant d. texas lead counsel house managers conducted lengthy inquiry judge hastings activities said mountain evidence points certain guilt senate deliberate closed doors today is scheduled vote impeachment tomorrow judge is impeached is thought likely be removed office immediately however judge hastings has said continue fight is contemplating appeal impeachment u.s. supreme court companies seeking make insurers pay pollution cleanup win court victory case involving avondale industries inc. insurer travelers cos. second u.s. circuit court appeals new york ruled favor company issues lawyers say are central dozens pollution cases country travelers other insurers have maintained cleanup costs are n't damages thus are n't covered commercial policies also have argued government proceedings notifying company potential responsibility do n't fit legal definition lawsuit thus such governmental proceedings are n't covered policies insurers say appeals court disagreed counts avondale was notified louisiana officials was potentially responsible cleanup oil-recycling plant avondale asked travelers defend state proceeding insurer did n't respond appeals court upheld district judge ruling insurer had defend company such proceedings appeals court also said think ordinary businessman reading policy have believed covered demands potential damage claims stemming cleanup decision have very considerable impact said kenneth abraham professor environmental law insurance law university virginia many commercial insurance policies are issued companies based new york william greaney attorney chemical manufacturers association said other appeals courts have ruled differently cleanup costs are damages influence appeals court new york make insurers sit up listen said decision was first federal appeals court has ruled administrative government proceedings qualify litigation barry r. ostrager attorney travelers said are procedural bases case be appealed further new york poor face nearly legal problems year legal help is conclusion report released new york state bar association report was based telephone survey low-income households state mail survey major legal-services programs on-site interviews individuals field report provides detailed documentation extent nature problem indicates want shape solutions said joseph genova chairman committee oversaw survey partner law firm milbank tweed hadley mccloy according study slightly more % surveyed reported having least housing problem year had legal help nearly % ranked housing problems most serious unmet legal need other areas targeted survey respondents included difficulty obtaining maintaining public benefits % consumer fraud % health-care issues % 15-month survey % legal-services programs said period were unable accept new clients had emergency mr. genova said committee meet propose solutions problems identified study prosecutor join gibson dunn assistant u.s. attorney randy mastro headed government racketeering case international brotherhood teamsters join gibson dunn crutcher new york office mr. mastro has been new york u.s. attorney office nearly years became deputy chief civil division mr. mastro do civil litigation white-collar defense work gibson dunn is based los angeles former apple computer inc. general counsel john p. karalis has joined phoenix ariz. law firm brown bain mr. karalis specialize corporate law international law 110-lawyer firm joining apple mr. karalis served general counsel sperry corp