surprising surge u.s. trade deficit raised fears nation export drive has stalled caused new turmoil financial markets merchandise trade deficit widened august commerce department reported sharp deterioration july largest deficit month year exports fell second month row imports rose record is worst trade releases 've had dollar troughed said geoffrey dennis chief international economist james capel inc most analysts mr. dennis was hesitant read too much month numbers said indicates perhaps balance u.s. economy is not as good 've been led believe number had troubling effect wall street suggesting more fundamental economic problems underlie last friday stock market slide dow jones industrial average tumbled more points report release recovering close points lower bad trade number raises deeper issues market decline said norman robertson chief economist mellon bank raises questions more deep-seated problems budget deficit trade deficit seeming lack ability come grips trade report drew yet unsettling parallel october oct. year announcement unusually large august trade deficit helped trigger steep market decline slide continued record 508-point market drop oct. however news was latest string disappointments trade current report comes period improvement bleak trade report was played bush administration commerce secretary robert mosbacher called worsening trade figures disappointing very good months white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said deficit was unwelcome increase adding 're hopeful simply is one-month situation turn around figures reinforced view many private analysts improvement u.s. trade deficit has run steam figures today add further evidence support view improvement u.s. trade deficit has essentially stalled level about annual rate said jeffrey scott research fellow institute international economics here 's still improvement last year leads conclude basically 've gotten mileage past dollar depreciation past marginal cuts federal budget deficit exports declined second consecutive month august slipping % commerce department reported imports other hand leaped % record not only was august deficit far worse july government revised july figure substantially deficit had initially reported last month many economists contend deep cuts u.s. budget deficit are needed further trade improvement occur 's budget deficit feeds enormous appetite country foreign goods foreign capital overwhelming nation capacity export people are sick tired hearing deficits imbalances are still there are still problem said mr. robertson addition rise value dollar foreign currencies past several months has increased price u.s. products overseas markets hurt country competitiveness march exports have been virtually flat same time william t. archey international vice president u.s. chamber commerce notes clearly stronger dollar has made imports more attractive causing prices decline most economists expect slowing u.s. economy curb demand imports foresee little substantial progress exports dollar federal budget deficit come down best result get numbers be see administration congress get serious putting u.s. internationally competitive economic footing said howard lewis vice president international economic affairs national association manufacturers start cutting federal budget deficit august decline exports reflected decreases sales industrial supplies capital goods food abroad increases sales motor vehicles parts engines jump imports stemmed across-the-board increases purchases foreign goods numbers were adjusted usual seasonal fluctuations alan murray contributed article billions u.s. dollars not seasonally adjusted newly industrialized countries singapore hong kong taiwan south korea source commerce department