just months ogilvy group was swallowed unsolicited takeover kenneth roman ogilvy chairman chief executive officer said is leaving take top post american express co mr. roman years old abruptly announced leave venerable ad agency largest client is american express become american express executive vice president corporate affairs communications succeed harry l. freeman has said retire december mr. freeman said august retire end year take executive responsibility embarrassing effort discredit banker edmond safra american express representatives apparently influenced publication unfavorable articles mr. safra company later apologized agreed make contributions charities chosen mr. freeman is retiring continue work consultant american express project basis ad industry executives were n't surprised mr. roman decision leave ogilvy agency direction bitterly fought takeover attempt wpp group plc london succumbing may mr. roman wpp chief executive martin sorrell have gone way be publicly supportive other people close mr. roman say was unhappy giving control company executives also cite tension efforts mr. sorrell financial man cut costs agency mr. roman be succeeded head ogilvy flagship ad agency ogilvy mather worldwide graham phillips had been president north american operations mr. sorrell is british alexander brody take newly created position president world-wide agency chief executive international operations had been president international operations mr. roman also had overseen ogilvy group other units scali mccabe sloves advertising agency research division units now report directly wpp mr. roman appears custom-made american express job known traditional executive is very much conservative american express mold moreover years ogilvy had honed reputation being squeaky-clean straight arrow only help american express wake safra incident also is close american express chairman chief executive officer james d. robinson iii aside working mr. robinson american express advertising account about years mr. roman serves several same charities boards mr. robinson abrupt management change sparked widespread speculation mr. roman had been pushed ogilvy top spot mr. sorrell mr. roman flatly denied speculation saying mr. sorrell had tried several times persuade stay offering various incentives instance sending note case wine wine naturally was seagram brand ogilvy client asked not resign implication was pushed aside n't be accurate mr. roman said mr. sorrell traveling far east n't be reached mr. roman said american express mr. robinson first approached job late september according industry executives peter sutherland former european community commissioner ireland was also serious contender american express job ultimately was n't offered be retainer american express adviser international matters talking on off past weeks mr. roman said agreed take job 's right time 's terrific opportunity think leave company very strong hands was decision not anyone else mr. roman also brushed reports infighting mr. phillips successor ogilvy executives hardly be more different mr. roman comes low-key executive mr. phillips has flashier personality time off mr. roman tends garden mr. phillips confesses fondness other things fast cars planes industry executives say executives used clash more frequently wpp takeover brought closer together 'm guy made head new york head u.s. president north america recommended mr. sorrell successor have done things successively did n't think was right guy mr. roman asked labeled reports friction ridiculous said spent part weekend mr. phillips boat connecticut mr. roman oversee american express public relations government affairs other things n't be involved advertising is handled operating units consider second career said also sit company corporate planning policy committee made top corporate operating executives mr. roman departure is n't expected have enormous repercussions ogilvy american express kraft general foods mattel executives said move n't affect relationships ad agency general foods relationships agencies are based agencies work continue be said david hurwitt vice president kraft general foods clients analysts expressed concern mr. phillips is n't as well-known many clients ken was key contact said j. nicholas hahn president chief executive officer cotton inc. represents cotton producers do n't know mr. phillips all that well have n't seen talked several years analysts questioned mr. phillips have skills ogilvy needs turn agency agency has done well many parts world flagship new york office has had dismal track record recently has won few new accounts losing big ones including maxwell house think mr. phillips is going need help think need creative leadership do n't think have said emma hill analyst wertheim co ogilvy mather top creative executive norman berry left agency earlier year norm berry was creative inspiration company nobody has filled void said ms. hill other analysts said having mr. phillips succeed mr. roman make smooth transition graham phillips has been there long time knows culture well is aggressive apparently gets well mr. sorrell said andrew wallach analyst drexel burnham lambert 's probably reasonable transition hopefully be answer problems 've had new york sale saatchi unit close computer sciences corp. el segundo calif. said is close making final agreement buy cleveland consulting associates saatchi saatchi computer sciences n't disclose proposed purchase price cleveland consulting counsels companies logistics supply david lord managing editor consultants news industry publication based fitzwilliam n.h. said industry standard suggest purchase price times cleveland consulting approximately annual revenue saatchi saatchi announced intention sell most consulting business june cleveland consulting declined comment proposed sale ad notes new account ambase corp. new york awarded ad account home insurance co. unit biederman kelly shaffer new york billings were n't disclosed puerto rico telephone co. awarded account west indies grey grey advertising office puerto rico diet coke coca-cola co. yesterday said singer elton john signed appear ad diet coke details commercial be part brand advertising campaign were n't disclosed mr. john becomes latest many music stars including george michael whitney houston appear ads diet drink