cathryn rice hardly believe eyes giving comprehensive test basic skills ninth graders greenville high school last march spotted student looking crib sheets had seen cheating before notes were uncanny stockbroker is example profession trade finance end world war ii germany surrendered japan senate-house conference committee is used bill is passed house senate different forms virtually word word notes matched questions answers social-studies section test student was taking fact student had answers almost questions section student surrendered notes not protest teacher said was use notes test said teacher question was nancy yeargin considered many students parents be best school confronted mrs. yeargin admitted had given questions answers days examination low-ability geography classes had gone so far display questions overhead projector underline answers mrs. yeargin was fired prosecuted unusual south carolina law makes crime breach test security september pleaded guilty paid fine alternative was days jail story is partly one personal downfall was unstinting teacher won laurels inspired students probably never teach again wake left bitterness anger principal was friend now calls betrayer colleagues say brought shame students parents defended insist was treated harshly school-district officials stunned bald-faced nature actions became something local martyr mrs. yeargin case also casts light dark side school reform pressures teachers are growing high-stakes testing has enhanced temptation cheat statute mrs. yeargin violated was designed enforce provisions south carolina school-improvement laws prosecutors alleged was trying bolster students scores win bonus state education improvement act bonus depended ability produce higher student-test scores is incredible pressure school systems teachers raise test scores says walt haney education professor testing specialist boston college so efforts beat tests are also rise most disturbing is educators not students are blamed much wrongdoing 50-state study released september friends education albuquerque n.m. school-research group concluded outright cheating american educators is common group says standardized achievement test scores are greatly inflated teachers often teach test mrs. yeargin did most are never caught evidence widespread cheating has surfaced several states last year so california education department suspects adult responsibility erasures schools changed wrong answers right ones statewide test numerous occurrences questionable teacher help students texas is revising security practices sales test-coaching booklets classroom instruction are booming materials including school publishing co. scoring high learning materials are nothing short sophisticated crib sheets according recent academic research using teachers administrative blessing telegraph students beforehand precise areas test concentrate sometimes give away few exact questions answers use scoring high is widespread south carolina common greenville county mrs. yeargin school district experts say is n't state country tests mean as much do south carolina state education improvement act low test scores block students promotions force entire districts wrenching state-supervised interventions mean firings high test scores other hand bring recognition extra money new computer lab school grants special projects bonus superintendent south carolina says is getting results reforms went place example state has posted higher rate improvement scholastic aptitude test south carolina state still posts lowest average score states use sat primary college entrance examination critics say south carolina is paying price stressing improved test scores so much friends education rates south carolina worst states study academic cheating says organization founder john cannell prosecuting mrs. yeargin is way administrators protect look take cheating seriously fact do n't take seriously paul sandifer director testing south carolina department education says mr. cannell allegations cheating are purely foundation based unfair inferences partly worries potential abuse however says state begin keeping closer track achievement-test preparation booklets next spring south carolina reforms were designed schools greenville high school standing shaded hill run-down area old textile city school has educated many south carolina best brightest including state last governors nobel prize winning physicist charles townes actress joanne woodward early 1980s glory had faded yellow bricks broad facade was full violence gangs kids cutting class says linda ward school principal crime was awful test scores were low was enrollment honors programs mrs. ward took over becoming school seventh principal years immediate predecessor suffered nervous breakdown prior term teacher bled death halls stabbed student academically mrs. ward says school was having trouble serving harmony disparate evenly split student groups privileged white elite old monied neighborhoods blacks many poor run-down inner city neighborhoods mrs. ward resolved clean deadwood school faculty restore safety also had new factors working behalf was statewide school reform raised overall educational funding ushered new public spirit school betterment was nancy yeargin came greenville full energy ambitions reformers wanted reward being teacher just became life says 37-year-old mrs. yeargin teacher years dismissal loved school history even dreamt school new things do students mrs. ward fired restructured staff struggled improve curriculum mrs. yeargin worked 14-hour days fast became student favorite applied won bonus pay reform law encouraged mrs. ward mrs. yeargin taught honor students state teacher cadet program reform creation designed encourage good students consider teaching career won grant money school advised cheerleaders ran pep club proposed taught new cultural literacy class western civilization was chosen school pta teacher year was inspirational lady had all together says laura dobson freshman university south carolina had mrs. yeargin teacher-cadet class last year says mrs. yeargin gave ambitions architecture is studying become teacher mary beth marchand greenville 11th grader also says mrs. yeargin inspired go education taught more western civilization 've ever learned other classes says kelli green greenville senior classroom students say mrs. yeargin distinguished varying teaching approaches forcing kids pair up complete classroom work using college-bowl type competitions weekends came work prepare study plans sometimes even polish furniture classroom just never gave says mary marchand mary beth mother see correcting homework stands football game fellow teachers however viewed mrs. yeargin cocky too yielding students mrs. ward says often defended colleagues called grandstander pressures began build friends told was pushing too hard deteriorating hearing told colleagues feared not be able teach much longer mrs. yeargin extra work was also helping earn points state incentive-bonus program most important source points was student improvement tests huge gains students meant total bonuses years a meaningful addition annual salary winning bonus third year was n't that important mrs. yeargin insists others greenville high say was eager win if not money then pride recognition mary elizabeth ariail social-studies teacher says believed mrs. yeargin wanted keep standing high get new job n't demand good hearing indeed mrs. yeargin was interested possible job state teacher cadet program last march attending teaching seminar washington mrs. yeargin says returned greenville days annual testing feeling had n't prepared low-ability geography students adequately test booklets were passed out hours ahead time says copied questions social studies section gave answers students mrs. yeargin admits made big mistake insists motives were correct was trying help kids unfair testing situation says only questions were geography questions rest were history sociology finance subjects never had mrs. yeargin says also wanted help lift greenville high school overall test scores usually bottom district high schools rankings carried annually local newspapers mostly says wanted prevent damage self-esteem low-ability students suffer doing badly test kids broke heart says whole day goes by one even knows 're alive desperately needed somebody showed cared loved last thing needed was drag-down blow school officials prosecutors say mrs. yeargin is lying found students advanced class year earlier said gave similar help case was n't tried court evidence was never presented publicly pretty much defeats inkling was help poor underprivileged child says joe watson prosecutor case is also president greenville high school alumni association mrs. yeargin concedes went over questions earlier class adding wanted help students mr. watson says mrs. yeargin never complained school officials standardized test was unfair do have much sympathy mr. watson asks not really believe system believe have use system change did was taking law own hands mrs. ward says cheating was discovered wanted avoid morale-damaging public disclosure trial bring says offered mrs. yeargin quiet resignation thought help save teaching certificate mrs. yeargin declined said something just want make easy school was dumbfounded mrs. ward recalls was someone had turned knife astonishment dismay superiors legal authorities and perhaps measure unpopularity standardized tests mrs yeargin won widespread local support school-board hearing was dismissed was crowded students teachers parents came testify behalf supportive callers decried unfair testing not mrs. yeargin local radio talk show appeared show did n't give particulars mrs. yeargin offense saying only helped students do better test message board education is 've got take serious look 're doing curriculum testing policies state said talk-show host editorials greenville newspaper allowed mrs. yeargin was wrong also said case showed testing was being overused radio show enraged says mrs. ward partly show mr. watson says district decided not recommend mrs. yeargin first-time offenders program have expunged charges conviction record legal authorities cranked investigation worthy murder case witnesses mostly students were interviewed greenville high school meanwhile students especially cheerleading squad were crushed 's hard explain 17-year-old someone like had go says mrs. ward soon t-shirts appeared corridors carried school familiar red-and-white ghs logo front back shirts read have answers many colleagues are angry mrs. yeargin did lot harm says cathryn rice had discovered crib notes work damn hard do damn little pay did cast unfair aspersions several teachers also say incident casts doubt wisdom evaluating teachers schools using standardized test scores says gayle key mathematics teacher incentive pay thing has opened can worms be others doing did mrs. yeargin says pleaded guilty realized no longer be possible win reinstatement was afraid further charges mrs. ward was relieved strong evidence mrs. yeargin popular sentiment was so strong favor mrs. ward says 'm afraid jury n't have convicted