minutes stock market closed friday called sen. bill bradley new jersey advised dow jones industrial average had declined points late afternoon cheerfully informed fellow democrats were blame had dealt major setback afternoon president bush capital-gains tax cut proposal had seemed bag passed house overwhelmingly earlier month sen. bradley has mind tax cut unravel tax reform helped engineer knows as many fellow democrats are disposed vote cut popular constituents result took lead arguing cut be blocked procedural grounds helped persuade senators support majority leader george mitchell grounds budget reconciliation had be dealt oct. deadline senate democrats refused agree allow vote append capital gains budget bill knowing pass denied vote substance gop leadership senate friday morning was confronted hard choice throw towel hope win capital gains late month follow white house strategy veto reconciliation capital gains was appended u.s. chamber commerce has been forefront supporting bush proposal endorsed white house strategy believing be surest way victory noon friday senior white house official advised richard rahn chamber chief economist white house not agree budget reconciliation bill had firm assurances vote substance be permitted senate hours later first word emerged capitol hill administration had agreed reconciliation such assurances senate democrats mr. rahn was shocked telephoning office richard darman director office management budget administration chief strategist issue left message accusing mr. darman selling was senate republicans though had edged away veto strategy stock market reacted mr. rahn did crumbling absorbed news mr. darman strategy had been abandoned stock market represents collective expectations value future income stream nation capital stock discounted present value be so surprising % cut capital-gains tax have enormous impact value nation capital stock total value privately held assets is easily more value traded exchanges is close tax gain assets was doubled n't value fall owners assets is n't reasonable assume asset own be worth more government suddenly announced sold be able keep % more gain previously believed indeed stock market steady advance year tracked president bush success advancing capital-gains proposal % cut year capital gains alone amounts roughly 're talking real money richard rahn advised financial press market crash was caused setback capital gains was generally ignored mildly ridiculed instead press corps readily accepted notion snag takeover financing united airlines instantly knocked % value nation capital stock caused convulsions world mr. rahn was pointing elephant rumbling wall street conventional wisdom had fastened ual flea is happening thing number leading spokesmen wall street are not portfolio managers understand value assets is greatly affected government taxes assets are economists financial reporters sympathize view capital-gains tax cut benefits rich somehow think wall street is indifferent losing tax cut seemed so close friday morning is now problematic market rebound monday followed weekend assurances mr. darman administration has other plans win cut is alive well sen. bradley argument is capital-gains tax cut be bad economy longer run inevitably lead increase marginal income-tax rates thinks white house is forced ask higher taxes meet budget targets is capital gains cut glue accord be gone political realities push income-tax rates counter-argument has heard is fellow democrats are successful killing president proposal revenue gap open tremendously weakened economy atmosphere be serious consideration tax increases sen. bradley permit vote capital gains though pass christmas retail sales be strong instead burdened falling stock market economy be robust revenue gains level government including new jersey be surprisingly high tax increases be necessary struggle capital gains is most important game town washington wall street mr. wanniski is president polyconomics inc. morristown n.j