regarding oct. letter editor rep. tom lantos chairman house subcommittee employment housing alleging sept. editorial kangaroo committees was factually inaccurate deliberately misleading thought editorial was factually accurate deliberately elucidative mr. lantos supported rights witnesses take fifth amendment did watched c-span heard speak lovely words bill rights quotes transcript hearings did repeat nice platitudes several times indication support constitution used about words defending witnesses constitutional rights unfortunately rough guess used better words heaping scorn witnesses exercising fifth sandwiched praise constitutional meat large loaves bilious commentary editorial rightly pointed samuel pierce former hud secretary lance wilson mr. pierce former aide are currently being held scorn taking fifth amendment certainly is not supposed distorted reading indicated mr. lantos committee does not deal possible criminal activity hud colleagues fully realize are not court absolute rubbish reasonable man criterion mr. lantos colleagues have whole bunch people tried convicted apparently verdict is in right now 're pursuing evidence 's not bad way proceed just somewhat different standard american practice was practice referred was school something called star chamber course mr. lantos doth protest subcommittee simply seeks information legislative change doubt 's partially true everything mr. lantos says letter is partially true 's right subcommittee responsibilities comes obtaining information prior hud officials explanation motivation is true is investigation so oriented identify criminal activity not simply questions designed identify sources causes waste inefficiency such happened congress wanted know about toilet seats supposedly cost no mr. lantos complaints simply n't wash journal defends sleaze fraud waste embezzlement influence-peddling abuse public took place mr. pierce was secretary hud so forth mind journal did not defend sleaze fraud waste embezzlement influence-peddling abuse public trust defended appropriate constitutional safeguards practical common sense problem journal so rightly pointed number articles is not likes mr. lantos is really bit player stage attempt congress enhance body course 've also got judiciary seeks same objective system is problem not individual member individuals always have hands slapped such slapping does n't occur 've got trouble do not means defend hud management think kind congressional investigation has been pursued is far greater danger american notions liberty freedom incompetency maybe criminality hud possibly generate last time saw similar congressional hearing was tail gunner joe mccarthy did work raymond weber parsippany n.j disagree statement mr. lantos not draw adverse inference former hud officials assert fifth amendment privilege self-incrimination congressional hearings fifth amendment states relevant part person be compelled criminal case be witness privilege self-incrimination precludes drawing adverse inference criminal defendant chooses not testify thus criminal case prosecutor not comment defendant failure testify defendant be compelled take stand witness thus forcing take fifth privilege however has been limited accordance plain language protect defendant criminal matters only supreme court states have specifically recognized fifth amendment does not preclude inference privilege is claimed party civil cause baxter palmingiano u.s. thus civil case defendant be called witness be forced testify take fifth taking fifth permit drawing adverse inference civil matter take fifth civil matter only has good faith justifiable belief testimony subject criminal prosecution allowing defendant take fifth civil matter is not based constitutional right refuse testify testimony harms civil matter testimony civil matter be unconstitutionally used subsequent criminal prosecution absent risk such prosecution court order defendant testify thus mr. pierce asserted fifth noncriminal proceeding particularly presumably receiving extensive advice legal counsel conclude held good-faith justifiable belief testimony be used subsequent criminal prosecution subcommittee congress american public have right draw adverse inference concur mr. pierce own belief testimony help convict crime drawing adverse inference noncriminal congressional hearing does not offend fifth amendment shield self-incrimination clark s. spalsbury jr estes park colo