be truce long war nerves white house congress country conducts secret intelligence operations abroad years mistrust born watergate past misdeeds central intelligence agency iran-contra scandal president bush senate intelligence committee appear ready now least trust other comes setting policy covert activities attitude lasts infuse covert action planning level care confidence has n't been seen years past week president has agreed keep committee informed usually advance covert actions put key intelligence decisions writing was n't always way reagan administration handled such matters mr. bush has pledged as well respect 14-year-old executive order barring u.s. agents assassinating foreign leaders helping others do so congress never fully trusted former cia chief william casey national security adviser john poindexter honor ban objections cia mr. bush also has agreed establishment inspector general cia be independent cia director return senate panel has dropped efforts enact legislation requiring administration inform hours launching covert activity also has removed ban cia use contingency fund covert acts has agreed wipe away tortured legalistic restrictions coup planning put place ensure cia did n't get back assassination game 've finally been able convince casey oliver north do n't work here anymore says administration official new understanding did n't just spring life spontaneous eruption sweetness light emerged rancorous display old-style intelligence politics followed month failed coup attempt panama white house used television appearances leaks argue congressionally imposed restrictions covert actions made u.s. support such coups difficult mr. bush even disclosed privately reagan-era deal congress required notify odious panamanian dictator manuel noriega u.s. learned coup plot endanger life president also hinted veto year intelligence authorization bill is too restrictive intelligence committee chairman david boren d. okla vice chairman william cohen r. maine part angrily accused white house selectively leaking classified documents trying unfairly shift blame congress bungled attempt topple gen. noriega white house got better exchange took care not press advantage kind constitutional confrontation sought conservative republicans do n't want congressional oversight intelligence activities instead mr. bush aides made clear respected congress role felt work conservative mr. boren moderate mr. cohen iron differences senators responded kind sen. boren happily told reporters had been meeting minds white house committee had given mr. bush clean slate free impediments imposed reagan years sen. cohen said relationship has reverted pre-reagan character still are details be nailed mr. bush is reserving right rare instances keep congress dark asserting constitutional prerogative committee does n't recognize pending justice department interpretation assassination ban raise questions have be settled moreover sides face political critics conservatives accuse president promising congress too much continue anonymously attacking cia director william webster being too accommodating committee same time congressional liberals accuse sens. boren cohen wimping warn lawmakers concessions raise specter more internationally embarrassing covert operations mining nicaraguan harbors iran arms sales cooperative attitude holds is greater consultation covert activities country be entering era such hare-brained schemes are scrapped get drawing boards risky well-planned secret operations be undertaken fear panicky congress balk