high-definition television promises be tv tomorrow is natural multibillion-dollar market major u.s. manufacturers have ceded main segment future business japan not everyone here is ready give handful small u.s. companies are struggling develop technology build screens thin high-quality televisions are expected hang living room walls end 1990s only small help government start-up concerns are trying compete goliaths japanese consumer electronics industry enjoy considerable backing japanese government photonics technology inc. northwood ohio aims use new form plasma technology put movie-quality images tv display is inches diameter only few inches thick planar systems inc. beaverton ore. largest firms annual revenue has similar plans already has had success electroluminescence promising technology adaptable high-definition television other firms ovonic imaging systems inc. troy mich. magnascreen corp. pittsburgh are developing variation flat-panel screens called active-matrix liquid crystal displays new technologies are intended retire cathode-ray tube accounts most bulk conventional tv set replacing cathode-ray tube large thin screen is key creation high-definition television hdtv is expected become business world-wide decade large u.s. companies are interested other segments hdtv business such signal-processing broadcast equipment zenith electronics corp. international business machines corp. is collaborating toshiba computer displays are poorly positioned exploit advances large panels general electric co. recently sold interests liquid-crystal displays thompson-csf france found market not developing thought ge spokesman says small u.s. firms are persisting strong positions patents prize is still there be seized one yet has shown ability manufacture panels commercial costs says zvi yaniv president ovonic imaging says thinks company is just few years doing bush administration hearing conflicting advice role hdtv be is n't doing much now only material support is extending struggling u.s. industry is awards pentagon defense advanced research projects agency darpa funds are pittance compared japan other prospective competitors are spending commerce department estimates japanese government industry spending hdtv research is already gets more help u.s. industry n't have chance says peter friedman photonics executive vice president thus far almost basic technology relating high-definition television has come u.s. laboratories peter brody magnascreen president says japanese companies are poised snatch technology put commercial use just did earlier u.s. innovations color television video recording 1970s mr. brody helped develop first display panels based active-matrix liquid crystals westinghouse electric corp. research labs pittsburgh panels are oversized semiconductors surfaced more picture elements contributing color tone tv image however westinghouse abandoned project stake advanced television mr. brody left company find other backers has claim right commercialize westinghouse patents contends patents are being infringed number japanese producers most american investors have just given mr. brody says are n't prepared compete area japanese want enter many critics question industry need federal support pentagon justifies help national-security grounds do n't see domestic source hdtv requirements 's source concern says michael kelly director darpa defense manufacturing office so darpa is trying keep industry interested developing large display panels doling research funds hdtv already has military applications such creating realistic flight simulations transmitting information combat commanders navy is ordering displays aegis cruisers army wants smaller versions abrams battle tanks commerce department also is trying encourage hdtv benefits spin off semiconductor computer industries is n't just yuppie television argues jack clifford director department office microelectronics instrumentation industry create industrial products such displays work stations medical diagnostic equipment acquires mass consumer market hdtv advocates are calling other forms aid such antitrust relief research consortia small firms simply prefer more darpa funds claims possess right technology wants just bit more money make commercial also want u.s. trade policy reflect pentagon commerce department concern future are strongly opposed petition several japanese tv manufacturers including matsushita hitachi toshiba exempt portable color tvs liquid-crystal displays anti-dumping duties u.s. imposes larger japanese color tvs want u.s. help sell overseas planar president james hurd says has pay tariffs as high % sell display panels japan south korea panels countries enter u.s. duty-free is n't technology issue attitude issue says just have n't learned takes compete