east germany humor has long been only way express political criticism 're not laughing new leader egon krenz mr. krenz is such contradictory figure nobody has even come good jokes have have clear feelings someone before make jokes says east german mother loves swapping political barbs friends krenz just do n't know expect mr. krenz does n't seem be knee-jerk hardliner many initially thought was 52-year-old politburo member was selected last week succeed erich honecker does n't appear be ready make broad changes either according east germany adn news agency mr. krenz spoke soviet leader mikhail gorbachev telephone weekend acknowledged east germany learn moscow glasnost policies already last week mr. krenz started overhauling east germany 's heavily censored notoriously boring news media thursday day after took office east german television broke regular programming launch talk show viewers call questions panel officials answer regular nightly news program daily newspapers are also getting visible injection soviet-style glasnost was quite shock says 43-year-old east german shopkeeper first time life was n't sure was listening news west german television other changes including easing restrictions travel east germans are expected such moves win back confidence east germans have taken streets thousands recent weeks demand democratic changes depends largely feel trust mr. krenz 's problem mr. krenz is not only closely identified mentor mr. honecker also blamed ordering violent police action protesters month praising china sending tanks student demonstrators hope grows job says rainer eppelmann protestant pastor east berlin most important thing is have chance mr. krenz is dedicated east germany conservative vein communism is much style sets apart party comrades mr. honecker tended lecture people socialist values mr. krenz enjoys asking questions indeed first actions leader was visit gritty machine factory outskirts berlin wander workers gorbachev was later shown television fielding questions point asked worker thought east germans were fleeing country restrictive travel policies worker tart reply 's more just travel people have sense government is ignoring real problems society exchange was more remarkable authorities released television footage western news agencies same tendency openness impressed group visiting u.s. congressmen spring rather trying lecture says congressional aide attended two-hour meeting mr. krenz wanted listen rep. ronnie flippo d. ala. members delegation says was particularly impressed mr. krenz ready admission east germany needed change 's very tough man 's also open arguments adds aide west german chancellor helmut kohl 's side mr. krenz born baltic town area is now part poland has dedicated life party apparatus moved quickly ranks help patron mr. honecker emerged heir apparent barbara donovan expert east germany radio free europe munich says mr. krenz project smooth image doubts 's true reformer even is adds appears have only limited room maneuver communist party ruling politburo background new east german leader move quickly shore government standing sudden growth opposition movement together steady outflow citizens escaping poland hungary has plunged country deepest political crisis anti-soviet workers uprising does n't have honeymoon period says western diplomat based east berlin 's sharp quick has chance diplomat adds mr. krenz has several things going east german economy is strong compared other east bloc nations relative youth help project more vibrant image contrasting perception mr. honecker out-of-touch old man average east germans mr. krenz remains puzzle was n't being real past is n't being real right now says 30-year-old east german doctor either way have problem quickly 's changed doctor was dozens people milling east berlin gethsemane church saturday morning walls church are covered leaflets news clippings handwritten notes associated country political opposition have come here read walls says doctor 's information still n't get newspapers meanwhile east germany growing openness even allow state-controlled news media display muted sense humor television last week carried new report east berlin main wallpaper factory need boost production east germans remember comment few years ago kurt hager government top ideologist just neighbor hangs new wallpaper 's reason change own point was is reason east germany copy soviet-style changes 's hard know was intended be funny says east berlin shopkeeper everyone know laughed