dollar rose yesterday careened roller-coaster market traders described as volatile confused times frightening u.s. currency recovered much lost ground collapse friday several dealers contend potential climb further be limited late new york trading dollar stood west german marks yen compared marks yen late friday british pound declined weekend early trading tokyo tuesday u.s. currency was changing hands yen up tokyo monday close yen marks down bit late trading monday new york times monday dollar followed dow jones industrial average dog leash only so far trading looked dow shadow point said jeffrey m. mondschein managing director charge foreign-exchange operations continental bank chicago said u.s. currency was having difficulty rising 1.87-mark level take away stock-market brouhaha last few days still have lower u.s interest rates lower u.s capacity utilization concern quarterly earnings general economic strength lack thereof said mr. mondschein wonder level dollar be moreover forecasters predict trade deficit august be released today worsen more previous month dollar bumpy journey began late sunday night far eastern trading panic selling thin market initially pushed as low marks yen end trading tokyo dollar was quoted yen real fireworks began european early new york activity traders were whipsawed inaccurate report stock market opening statement federal reserve board chairman alan greenspan initially reuters reported dow jones industrial average opened down % instead actual % decline mistake was quickly corrected news prompted traders dump dollars then almost immediately buy back rebound dollar soared marks % two-and-a-half minutes spokesman reuters new york confirmed was error was quickly corrected nonetheless peter stein trader commerzbank frankfurt said 's crazy absolute madness later news wires reported mr. greenspan said speech delivered last week moscow had been misinterpreted time many traders took be signal fed n't lower interest rates weaken dollar u.s. was odds major trading partners seeking stabilize high-flying u.s. currency lower level dollar promptly fell nearly pfennig was up down up down up down said marcus croonen trader dg bank frankfurt was bad day indeed dollar dropped % mark highs friday sunday night lows only shoot back up % high point yesterday hectic activity traders said danish italian central banks intervened defend respective currencies strengthening mark roberto bianchi vice president union bank switzerland described market mood confused everybody keeps repeating 's 's not same central banks stand ready stabilize market yet is lot uncertainty mr. bianchi said big european institutional investors were selling dollars lots investors had been dollars long time got out led nervousness trading room said mr. bianchi heiko thieme investment strategist deutsche bank new york contended europeans had n't purchased many american shares year even so 's bullish view dollar is n't vulnerable fundamental basis 'm not afraid dollar runs more risk being too strong too weak said mr. thieme expects u.s. trade deficit keep improving u.s. economy expand % % next year recession fears are overdone inflation hysteria totally unfounded mr. thieme argued also said % total output goods services u.s. budget deficit is manageable thus little risk losing profits deteriorating currency have here is unique buying opportunity said mr. thieme u.s. stock market george kuster manager gulf occidental investment s.a. geneva agrees only point october time was laughing 'm convinced stock market is going go up said nonetheless mr. kuster added do n't trust u.s. market much dollar volatility clients lost lot money 1970s because dollar afford not gain u.s. equities instead swiss money manager sees better opportunities japanese west german french markets commodity exchange new york gold current delivery rose ounce moderate trading estimated volume was ounces early trading hong kong tuesday gold was quoted ounce down ounce monday