senate republicans have settled proposal cut capital-gains tax individuals corporations same time small group senate democrats are working similar plan introduce soon sen. bob packwood r. ore. lead sponsor gop proposal said intends unveil plan today offer amendment legislation comes along particularly month bill raise federal borrowing limit gave 10-to-1 odds capital-gains tax cut sort be approved year probably n't be included pending deficit-reduction bill added expects talk democrats also wanted cut gains tax drafting joint proposal individuals packwood plan exclude income % gain sale capital asset held more year exclusion rise percentage points year asset was held reached maximum % exclusion apply assets sold oct. alternative said taxpayers chose reduce gains inflation index corporations top tax rate sale assets held more years be cut % current top rate % rate gradually decline as little % corporate assets held years packwood plan also include proposal designed sen. william roth r. del. expand alter deduction individual retirement accounts roth plan create new non-deductible ira money be withdrawn tax-free not only retirement also purchase first home pay education medical expenses current iras be rolled over new iras be subject tax part group democrats are working plan packwood proposal grant larger exclusions assets longer were held individuals companies newly acquired assets get bigger break currently held extra exclusion be given long-held stock small medium-size corporations just starting up one senate is considering capital-gains plan passed house plan provide % exclusion assets sold period ending dec. then house measure boost tax rate % exclude tax gain attributable inflation senators are focusing making capital-gains differential permanent separately chairman dan rostenkowski d. ill house ways means committee said did n't want capital-gains tax cut other amendments attached pending bill raising federal borrowing limit current debt limit expires oct. also urged house senate negotiators rid deficit-reduction bill provisions increase budget deficit including house-passed capital-gains provision