israel has launched new effort prove palestine liberation organization continues practice terrorism thus persuade u.s. break talks group u.s. officials however said are n't buying israeli argument israeli counterterrorism officials provided state department 20-page list recent terrorist incidents attribute directly forces controlled plo chairman yasser arafat mr. arafat publicly renounced terrorism dec. satisfying u.s. precondition direct dialogue plo u.s. counterterrorism official said experts are studying israeli list have independent evidence linking fatah acts terrorism dec. said referring specific plo group mr. arafat heads so far list does n't change view israel wants end dialogue analysts take different view israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir top adviser counterterrorism yigal carmon was here monday present report members congress reporters others mr. carmon said also presented list last week william brown u.s. ambassador israel separately new york times reported israeli government had provided correspondent jerusalem different documents israel said prove plo has been conducting terrorism occupied arab territories state department said has n't yet seen copies papers dialogue was based assumption arafat plo stop terrorism have evidence continued terrorism be logical conclusion mr. carmon asked israel has long claimed mr. arafat never meant renounce terrorism particularly lieutenants reserved right press armed struggle jewish state now jerusalem says is backing contention detailed accounts alleged terrorist acts plans linked mr. arafat blames most fatah new accusations come delicate time u.s. efforts bring talks israel palestinian representatives state department said had received new letter subject israeli foreign minister moshe arens restating israel previous objection negotiating palestinian tied plo deciding constitutes terrorism be legalistic exercise u.s. defines premediated politically motivated violence perpetrated noncombatant targets subnational groups clandestine state agents meet u.s. criteria israel contended only listed incidents involved civilians occurred pre-1967 borders heart israel report is list dozen incidents jerusalem attributes fatah including use bombs molotov cocktails u.s. officials say are n't satisfied incidents constitute terrorism be offshoots intifadah palestinian rebellion occupied territories u.s. does n't classify terrorism addition officials say israel has n't presented convincing evidence acts were ordered fatah group mr. arafat controls u.s. terrorism experts also say are highly uncertain veracity separate documents leaked new york times papers israel says were discovered israeli-occupied gaza refer terrorist acts be carried out name group called revolutionary eagles supporters israel say u.s. policy palestinian terrorism is colored intense desire maintain dialogue plo state department officials accuse israel leaking questionable claims embarrass u.s