regional thrift regulators charged phone calls were bugged examination lincoln savings loan association federal officials washington delayed lincoln seizure cost made most expensive thrift failure ever clearly were shot back battled protect taxpayers said william black acting district counsel san francisco region thrift regulators day extraordinary testimony house banking committee officials san francisco office thrift supervision also testified big accounting firm arthur andersen co. participated back-dating loan documents washington officials even agreed document not prosecute lincoln certain infractions hearing also add unease sens. alan cranston d. calif dennis deconcini d. ariz. are being scrutinized intervening behalf lincoln unit american continental corp. phoenix ariz officials said sen. deconcini aide sen. cranston called california state thrift officials press sale lincoln instead seizure witnesses said room california examiners were auditing lincoln past spring was bugged according government memo regulators took control thrift august discovered phone line lincoln headquarters irvine calif. had been compromised allow calls be monitored other extensions did n't say was monitoring calls said matter was turned federal bureau investigation lincoln spokesman said management never authorized participated bugging anyone regional officials said washington chief thrift regulator danny wall principal lieutenants repeatedly ignored warnings lincoln was being operated reckless manner certain cause failure also accused mr. wall holding improper meetings lincoln officials refusing listen field examiners members banking committee generally received regional officials bureaucratic heroes sharply criticized washington bosses had relieved responsibility lincoln years thrift parent filed bankruptcy-law protection committee chairman henry gonzalez d. texas said mr. wall willingly cut legs regulatory troops middle battle renewed call mr. wall step aside rep. joseph kennedy d. mass said higher up regulatory process more corrupt appear mr. wall is scheduled testify nov. agency said sides issue be heard drawing conclusions separately other washington thrift officials disputed regional examiners statement had called specifically seizure lincoln saying was only option presented regional officials also said arthur andersen backdated data support loans were made underwriting standards years april loans were approved even lincoln had written loan standards said mike patriarca acting principal supervisory agent office thrift supervision fifty-two loans were made march said none had credit reports other background work completed later time files looked good had been stuffed mr. patriarca said leonard bickwit washington attorney lincoln conceded memos had been written fact said memorialization underwriting activities had been undertaken earlier time did occur lincoln believed adhered lending standards superior industry average spokesman arthur andersen denied improprieties adding request then-client provided staff personnel work limited period time direction client personnel assist organizing certain files matter is active criminal investigation justice department mr. black said hearings also disclosed washington officials promised may not launch civil criminal actions based examination regional officials concluded lincoln was being operated unsafe unsound manner giving right make criminal referrals is inconceivable mr. black said committee also heard testimony officials said sens. cranston deconcini received campaign contributions lincoln chairman charles keating jr. arranged telephone calls behalf state thrift regulators officials said calls encouraged sale lincoln outside buyer mr. keating sought rather putting receivership spokesman sen. cranston said telephone-company records months disclosed phone calls state regulators office aide sen. deconcini said phone call top california thrift regulator was informational