years coddling drain 's way lot brokers feel today second anniversary stock-market crash ever fearful black monday 've been tirelessly wooing wary individual investors trying convince oct. was fluke stock market really is safe place average americans put hard-earned dollars last friday seemed efforts were starting pay off folks were coming back says leslie quick jr. chairman discount brokers quick reilly group inc had heard people had n't been active long time then came frightening 190-point plunge dow jones industrial average new wave stock-market volatility sudden was back square 's going set things back period reinforces concern volatility says jeffrey b. lane president shearson lehman hutton inc think shake confidence more time lot business is based client confidence brokers country say reaction individual investors week has been almost eerie customers potential customers are suddenly complaining stock market exact way did post-crash kinds questions had have resurfaced says raymond a. chip mason chairman regional brokerage firm legg mason inc. baltimore just tell questions are right back were 's going on n't anything be done program trading does n't exchange understand is sec mr. mason says 's convinced public still wants invest common stocks even believe deck is stacked wide swings scare death is bad news big brokerage firms such shearson merrill lynch co. have big retail individual-investor businesses expanding rapidly bull-market years crash retail brokerage operations days are getting barely enough business pay overhead true amount money investors are willing entrust brokers has been growing lately dollars have been going such safe products money market funds do n't generate much way commissions brokerage firms discount brokerage charles schwab co. such cash-equivalent investments recently accounted record firm client assets brokers hope has been soon coax investors shifting hoard stock market last friday were actually making modest progress slightly higher percentage new york stock exchange volume has been attributed retail investors recent months compared post-crash according securities industry association data average % big board volume was retail business monthly level never more % retail participation dropped average % shriveled barely % months year yet retail participation has been more % month was % august latest month figures are available jeffrey schaefer sia research director says group retail-volume statistics be overstated as much percentage points corporate buy-backs are sometimes inadvertently included big board data there did seem be retail activity pickup friday did n't help things says mr. schaefer gyrations recent days says hugo quackenbush senior vice president charles schwab many small investors are absolutely convinced n't play stock market joseph grano president retail sales marketing painewebber group inc. still thinks individual investors eventually go back stock market investors develop thicker skins confidence return says friday plunge is telling painewebber brokers was nothing more tremendous reaction leveraged buy-out stocks meanwhile painewebber remains leaders efforts simply persuade investors keep giving wall street money 's more important issue keep control assets rather push investor move specific products such equities mr. grano says equity decision come client is ready 's semblance confidence be long wait say industry observers investors tiptoe back in says richard ross market research director elrick lavidge chicago then be swing given enough drive everyone most hardy adds mr. ross has been studying retail investors perception risks brokerage industry said market plunge friday shatters investors confidence ability make judgments market long-term outlook retail brokerage business is miserable mr. ross declares