director steve kloves took big gamble michelle pfeiffer voice cast actress not exactly known way song singing star fabulous baker boys wanted carry tunes call went sally stevens ms. stevens is is known trade studio singer los angeles-based artist estimates 's performed film scores abyss ironweed klute voice is audible incidental music tv series wonder years miami vice matlock has also worked frequently lyricist vocal contractor hiring conducting choruses sing movie title tracks most do is very anonymous was not brave enough say was willing starve death be recording artist doing studio work has been wonderful way make living long long time said ms. stevens years row received most valuable player award female studio vocalist national academy recording arts sciences organization hands grammys ms. stevens involvement baker boys was result long affiliation movie composer dave grusin had written lyrics had sung various films contracted voices said knew work called was really funny approach singer tell do n't want sing always run risk offending said do n't know is going be compliment insult then explained michelle was going do film role was playing was singer wanted very much do own singing was possible point nobody including ms. pfeiffer was certain be possible had sung only movie grease vocal demands baker boys singing standards only piano backup were considerably more imposing exposing belting rock'n roll score concert several other singers instruments ms. pfeiffer was n't sure was putting numbers look love cents dance funny valentine ms. stevens was n't sure was showing way had not done coaching before said have produced vocal performances studio professional singers had never taken anyone scratch before had go lot instinct think dave thought career had done susie diamond character had done michelle consciously unconsciously pick things first lessons took place cinegrill lounge hollywood roosevelt hotel ms. stevens brought ms. pfeiffer hear nightclub singer soak atmosphere instincts were wonderfully astute remembered ms. stevens is michelle sensed undercurrent anger singer performance think 's true lot club singers have n't had recognition feel deserve had hoped accordingly ms. pfeiffer incorporated anger development character ms. pfeiffer vocal development weeks ms. stevens made daily two-hour visits actress santa monica home armed sheet music occasion albums june christy blossom dearie ella fitzgerald artists ms. pfeiffer had n't paid much mind past suggested michelle listen ella said ms. stevens nobody sings better not wanted sound ella 's quality artists period had felt character susie have listened way sang early sessions seemed clear michelle had been listening not ella bob dylan was pronunciation approach seemed dylan-influenced recalled ms. stevens vowels were swallowed word endings were given short shrift worked almost became joke was constantly reminding say consonants as well vowels explain exactly meant ms. stevens mr. grusin went los angeles studio recorded demo songs being considered inclusion movie ms. pfeiffer learn numbers correct enunciation mr. grusin also made demo tape just piano provide accompaniment ms. pfeiffer practiced ms. pfeiffer had going determination ms. stevens recalled actress was night a.m. practicing funny valentine was airy alto nice breathy quality intelligence first started working was matter finding language understood ms. stevens said n't talk someone had lot vocal training so ms. stevens talked was importance saying words front mouth lips teeth urged ms. pfeiffer get feeling smile throat put smile face give pitch sound lift kept harping importance overdoing consonants percussive endings t k talked using language tool flirting lyrics michelle sing line makin whoopee sunny funny honeymoon do n't say funn-ih way dylan say funn-eeee put clean vowel ending michelle continue smoke packs cigarettes day was process discovery said ms. stevens admitted sometimes felt bit henry higgins tried do was take sparks positive stuff fan tried not do much do n't do do n't do was layer coaching helping ms. pfeiffer sing song way susie diamond sing not brilliantly because was performer was collecting paychecks lounges hiltons holiday inns creditably air someone cents dance was more bit autobiographical was exercise blending michelle singing susie singing explained ms. stevens dangerous liaisons had been musical have had give different vocal performance was different character movie ms. pfeiffer vocal performance baker boys recorded posterity soundtrack album grp is such first number more know viewers begin murmuring other is really singing is n't really swear single note movie was averred ms. stevens had begun kidding protege was going get tonight show booking seeing michelle up there added was watching daughter was so nervous wanted be so good did n't want feel let ms. kaufman is free-lance writer based new york