general motors corp. general counsel hopes cut number outside law firms auto maker uses about years harry j. pearce named general counsel may says reduction is cost-cutting measure effort let no. auto maker 134-lawyer in-house legal department take matters is better equipped trained handle gm trimmed about firms approved local counsel list mr. pearce says move is consistent trend corporate legal staffs do more work in-house instead farming law firms mr. pearce set gm first in-house litigation group may lawyers former assistant u.s. attorneys extensive trial experience intends add litigation staff types cases in-house litigators handle are disputes involving companies doing business gm product-related actions including driver is suing gm damages resulting accident mr. pearce has also encouraged staff work more closely gm technical staffs help prevent future litigation gm lawyers have been working technicians develop more uniform welding procedures way vehicle is welded has lot do durability lawyers also monitor suits identify specific automobile parts cause biggest legal problems mr. pearce says law firms best chance retaining winning business gm be providing highest-quality service best cost echoing similar directives gm auto operations suppliers does n't necessarily mean larger firms have advantage mr. pearce said gm works number smaller firms regards highly mr. pearce has shaken gm legal staff eliminating titles establishing several new functions including special-projects group has made films safety drunk driving federal prosecutors are concluding fewer criminal cases trials 's finding new study justice department researchers syracuse university david burnham authors says fewer trials probably means growing number plea bargains % federal prosecutions concluded trial only % did study covered major u.s. attorneys offices including manhattan brooklyn n.y. new jersey justice department rejected implication prosecutors are currently more willing plea bargain felony caseloads have been consistent years about % prosecutions going trial department spokeswoman said discrepancy is somewhat perplexing syracuse researchers said based conclusions government statistics possible explanation decline taking cases trial says mr. burnham is number defendants being charged crimes u.s. attorneys has substantially increased study says prosecutors surveyed filed charges defendants people aged years older prosecutors filed defendants adults finding study prosecutors set significantly different priorities manhattan u.s. attorney office stressed criminal cases averaging adults new jersey u.s. attorney averaged civil side manhattan prosecutor filed average only cases adults same period san francisco u.s. attorney averaged study is provide reporters academic experts others raw data base further inquiries imelda marcos asks dismissal says was kidnapped former first lady philippines asked federal court manhattan dismiss indictment claiming other things was abducted homeland mrs. marcos late husband former philippines president ferdinand marcos were charged embezzling more country then fraudulently concealing much money purchases prime real estate manhattan mrs. marcos attorneys asked federal judge john f. keenan give access u.s. documents alleged abduction u.s. attorney office documents filed response said mrs. marcos was making fanciful factually unsupported claim was kidnapped country order obtain classified material case office also said mrs. marcos husband were n't brought u.s. will mr. marcos was ousted president prosecutor quoted statements marcoses said were country invitation president reagan were enjoying hospitality u.s lawyers mrs. marcos say was taken u.s. wishes federal court lacks jurisdiction case federal court appeals manhattan ruled dismissal indictment former bank crete owner george koskotas be reconsidered indictment was sealed apparently forgotten investigators charges mr. koskotas others tax fraud other violations made numerous trips u.s. early was n't arrested showed guest then-vice president george bush government function federal judge manhattan threw indictment finding seven-year delay violated defendant constitutional right speedy trial appeals court however said judge did n't adequately consider delay actually hurt chances fair trial mr. koskotas is fighting extradition proceedings return greece is charged embezzling more bank crete attorney n't be reached comment voluntarism effort stave plan require lawyers new york state provide hours free legal aid year state bar recommended alternative program increase voluntary participation programs state bar association policy making body house delegate voted saturday ask chief judge sol wachtler give bar voluntary program years prove effectiveness considering mandatory believe suggested plan is more likely improve availability quality legal service poor is proposed mandatory plan achieve objective divisiveness distraction administrative burdens possible failure fear accompany attempt impose mandatory plan said justin l. vigdor rochester headed bar study committee dallas houston law firms merge jackson walker 130-lawyer firm dallas datson scofield 70-lawyer firm houston said have agreed principle merge consolidated firm rank largest texas operate name jackson walker merger be formally approved partners firms is expected be completed year end jackson walker has office fort worth texas dotson scofield has office new orleans piling piggybacking government assertions general electric co. have covered fraudulent billings pentagon shareholders have filed civil racketeering suit company suit was filed plaintiffs securities lawyer richard d. greenfield u.s. district court philadelphia seeks damages company directors grounds participated condoned illegal acts utterly failed carry duties directors ge is defending government criminal charges fraud false claims connection logistics-computer contract army trial begins today federal court philadelphia government assertions cover-up were made last minute pretrial motions ge vehemently denies government allegations denounced mr. greenfield suit is cheap-shot suit procedurally defective thoroughly fallacious was hurriedly filed contingency-fee lawyer result newspaper reports said ge spokeswoman added company was considering bringing sanctions mr. greenfield making grossly inaccurate unsupported allegations