h. marshall schwarz was named chairman chief executive officer u.s. trust corp. private-banking firm assets management mr. schwarz years old succeed daniel p. davison feb. soon mr. davison reaches company mandatory retirement age mr. schwarz is president u.s. trust be succeeded post jeffrey s. maurer is executive vice president charge company asset-management group u.s. trust 136-year-old institution is earliest high-net worth banks u.s. has faced intensifying competition other firms have established heavily promoted private-banking businesses own result u.s. trust earnings have been hurt mr. schwarz welcomes competition u.s. trust flagship businesses calling flattery mr. schwarz says competition broadens base opportunity other firms are dealing masses do n't believe have culture adequately service high-net-worth individuals adds u.s. trust recently introduced certain mutual-fund products allow serve customers minimum deposits previously company advertised level have always taken smaller accounts now are looking smaller accounts grow mr. schwarz says bread butter is still account says new services allow u.s. trust cater new wealth mr. schwarz says quarterly net income year has risen just comparable periods year-end net was level year third quarter example net was share compared share year earlier assets sept. fell have reasonably flat year year mr. schwarz says mr. schwarz also said costs associated u.s. trust planned move midtown manhattan wall street continue be drag earnings mr. schwarz great-grandfather founded new york toy store f.a.o. schwarz family no longer has ties company mr. schwarz father was u.s. trust trustee u.s. trust also created four-member office chairman effective feb. include messrs. schwarz maurer donald m. roberts treasurer frederick s. wonham takes responsibility funds-service group were named vice chairmen serve office chairman mr. roberts continues treasurer mr. wonham remains responsible offices comptroller planning marketing general services frederick b. taylor also was named vice chairman chief investment officer new post previously held similar responsibilities mr. taylor also was named director increasing board is not part new office chairman james e. bacon executive vice president has directed funds-service group retire