few people advertising business have raised many hackles alvin a. achenbaum general public not know name 's famous make infamous advertising circles marketing consultant pioneered slashing ad agency commissions delight advertising clients dismay agencies now beating mr. achenbaum is joining backer spielvogel bates worldwide named mr. achenbaum vice chairman professional services reporting directly carl spielvogel chairman chief executive officer joins nov. dissolving consulting firm canter achenbaum associates years past ad industry most distinguished executives did n't hesitate excorciate mr. achenbaum have since mellowed senior young rubicam executive echoing others said think ad agencies owe carl spielvogel vote thanks getting consulting business industry executives also believe hiring mr. achenbaum is shrewd move backer spielvogel unit saatchi saatchi mr. achenbaum has counted clients most visible blue-chip advertisers country including nissan toyota seagram backer spielvogel clients hyundai j.p. morgan backer spielvogel work clients potential clients marketing strategies aside agency compensation issues helped nissan example come up positioning pricing new infiniti line client contacts meanwhile prove gold mine agency has had few new business wins late 've done ad agency searches clients so have pretty good notion clients are interested look agency mr. achenbaum said consultant has given seminars agencies including ogilvy mather win new business mr. spielvogel said hopes mr. achenbaum do strategic consulting agency non-clients hopes become clients backer spielvogel mr. spielvogel hallmark has been personal involvement major clients pampers invites fabulous parties strokes mr. achenbaum too delves clients business carl has much higher degree intimacy clients is ordinary agency size al record being delver detail guy see fit said alan gottesman analyst painewebber mr. achenbaum move follows announcement last month consulting partner stanley canter retire announcement came out picked phone said do n't come mr. spielvogel said mr. achenbaum had been considering paring firm merging small consulting outfit soon agreed men are longtime friends tennis partners having met years ago becoming consultant mr. achenbaum was senior executive j. walter thompson co spent most career formulating marketing strategies became best-known chipping away ad agency compensation ad agencies typically earned straight % commission client spent tv time agency made mr. achenbaum pioneered negotiated fees often worked out less % more recently negotiated indemnification clauses ad agency cases pay client drops account ultimately became so well-known cutting compensation however clients did n't seek anything else was very frustrated said fact matter is am marketer 's reason backer spielvogel job struck way get back really want do mr. spielvogel added pointedly pressure commissions did n't begin al achenbaum mr. spielvogel said mr. achenbaum work clients determine mix promotion merchandising publicity other marketing outlets integrate services concentrate others j.p. morgan hyundai mr. achenbaum helped morgan recent agency search has long relationship hyundai is having severe troubles including declining sales trail revenue is increasingly going away pure advertising going other services mr. spielvogel said instead being just ad agency said have redefined mission here mission is help clients grow use tool marketing communications accomplish industry executives are wishing mr. achenbaum well leonard matthews then-president american association advertising agencies called mr. achenbaum quisling incendiary speech yesterday mr. matthews now consultant stamford conn. firm matthews johnston quipped think be very good new job much better price-cutting 's been doing recently cotton inc campaign cotton inc. fiber company represents cotton growers begin new ad campaign developed ogilvy mather thanksgiving day j. nicholas hahn cotton inc. president chief executive was outspoken critic wpp group acquisition ogilvy group earlier year takeover mr. hahn said put account review wpp bid were successful did n't cotton inc. new campaign calls cotton fabric lives campaign replaces take comfort cotton ads marks end national cooperative advertising efforts years company ads were tied in pitches cannon sheets martex towels example announcer end ads tell customers find true performance label new tv spots ogilvy mather has opted family style lots laughter hugs tears 're making fairly obvious plea emotional reaction says tom rost creative director ogilvy mather cotton inc. spend nearly broadcasting thanksgiving day alone advertising such programs good morning america macy thanksgiving day parade nfl holiday game frank mingo dies frank l. mingo pioneers advertising targeted black audiences died age stroke mr. mingo was chief executive officer mingo group founded created ads black market clients include miller brewing co. general motors mr. mingo was hospitalized sept. died monday according samuel j. chisholm agency president chief operating officer ad notes earnings omnicom group inc. new york reported third-quarter net income rose % cents share cents share year earlier revenue increased %