has more drug users boston has people children live foster homes residents have homes tax base is shrinking budget deficit looms city faces contract negotiations major municipal unions year is new york city dust dirt settle extra-nasty mayoral race man most likely gain custody is career politician named david dinkins running nation largest most ornery city be treat least mr. dinkins knows expect campaign hits home stretch however voters still have very little idea expect years city politics david dinkins remains enigma soft-spoken silver-haired manhattan borough president first black man win democratic nomination mayor here does n't have single prominent political enemy is widely described man deep convictions has few major political programs call own asked greatest achievement public life first speaks quality staff now election day nears even supporters wonder do wins mayoralty nov. wonder be firm longtime allies including union leaders political cronies seek place trough wonder has economic know-how steer city possible fiscal crisis wonder be advising wins be thrall most liberal allies advocate such policies rent control commercial buildings tilt real-estate interests have funneled money campaign decisive primary victory mayor edward i. koch september mr. dinkins coasted recently quite-comfortable lead republican opponent rudolph giuliani former crime buster has proved something bust candidate mr. dinkins has stumbled past weeks campaign payments black activist is convicted kidnapper handling stock sale son polls also have recorded slippage mr. dinkins support jewish voters citywide projections now put lead percentage points interview reporters editors wall street journal mr. dinkins appears quite confident victory ability handle mayoralty lot people think give away store assure not says am aware have real budgetary problems city is full aging bridges water mains roadways are need billions dollars worth repair renewed efforts fight drugs crime be costly city officials say tax revenues are lagging decade explosive job growth wall street period contraction is way mr. koch already has announced drop jobs city payroll n't be enough new york state comptroller edward regan predicts budget gap city next fiscal year gap grow is recession elected mr. dinkins probably have choice raise taxes overburdened businesses cut spending already under-serviced neighborhoods is going face mess says city council president andrew stein supporters are not venal solution everything be spend more money n't have money by large mr. dinkins has finessed touchy question ox gore instead focusing financial future mr. dinkins has sold unifier city recently touched racial violence soothing antidote years commotion generated mayor koch thing dinkins candidacy is offers hope broad range people says meyer frucher real-estate executive former aide gov. mario cuomo is feel-good candidacy doubt mr. dinkins has been calming influence is avuncular figure remembers birthdays colleagues children opens doors women almost never has bad word say anybody more important emerged peacemaker last summer central park rape white jogger group harlem teens was charged racial murder black teen-ager white brooklyn neighborhood bensonhurst rather scaring white voters many predicted mr. dinkins attracted many whites precisely reputation having cool head keeping cool is dinkins priority humid days summer was known change double-breasted suits as many times day even front-runner campaign has shown signs indecisiveness confusion say has plagued tenure manhattan borough president hinder mayor last few weeks has frittered away roughly half was once 33-point lead polls mr. giuliani story mishandled sale son stock media company controlled political patron percy sutton was allowed fester full week mr. dinkins faced media has canceled numerous campaign appointments was largely inaccessible media stock story broke campaign was caught flat-footed allegations paid almost said was get-out-the-vote effort black activist sonny carson convicted kidnapper later said publicly is anti-white critics have said payment looked attempt dinkins camp get mr. carson stop leading confrontational demonstrations protesting bensonhurst murder protests campaign have feared cause white voters turn black candidate mr. dinkins also has failed allay jewish voters fears association rev. jesse jackson fact few local non-jewish politicians have been as vocal jewish causes past years mr. dinkins has campaign problems have echoed difficulties mr. dinkins has run before former u.s. marine mr. dinkins got off quick start politics joining local democratic political club 1950s linking up black urban leaders such charles rangel basil paterson mr. sutton getting elected state assembly chance become deputy mayor mayor abraham beame plan boosted mr. sutton was squandered because mr. dinkins failure still largely unexplained file income tax returns years running always thought thing always be done tomorrow said time later mr. dinkins became more deeply indebted mr. sutton other city pols including then-city council president paul o'dwyer helped get appointed city clerk largely ceremonial post responsible city marriage bureau other things mr. o'dwyer is now lawyers mr. sutton media company debt rose further mr. sutton resigned position manhattan borough president run mayor mr. sutton recalls left sat down charlie rangel basil paterson david david said run borough president said david garth mayor koch longtime media adviser says mr. dinkins really is personification patronage system guy is so personally decent people tend forget mr. dinkins lost twice wide margins finally getting elected borough president most accounts made little post was best known city politicians problems making mind matters city board estimate body votes crucial budget land-use matters colleagues today recall humor meetings crawl early morning hours mr. dinkins march staff board meetings private office discuss certain controversial proposals taught drink herbal tea instead coffee a.m. give says deputy mayor robert esnard often mr. dinkins procrastination prevented having say way things turned out critics claim campaign stump often points out was only board estimate member vote controversial real-estate project manhattan columbus circle board members say took so long decide vote time decided was too late try draw other members position says city official everybody else had brought wagons made deal have got lot more done made mind faster board member bronx borough president ferdinand ferrer was said be so impatient mr. dinkins behavior many meetings withheld support mr. dinkins mayoral effort late primary campaign had problem time time length time take make mind mr. ferrer admits maintains did n't delay support mr. dinkins backs democratic candidate enthusiastically mr. dinkins campaign manager former chief staff bill lynch denies manhattan borough president has taken too long decide important issues did n't rubber-stamp everything came mr. lynch says occasions mr. dinkins has discussed issues campaign has run familiar kind trouble supporters were stunned summer mr. dinkins suggested weakening law forbidding public employees go strike withdrew remark later sided striking hospital workers allies cringed little more concerned mr. dinkins was setting wrong tone coming contract negotiations city employees then days receiving endorsement environmental groups mr. dinkins promised issue three-year moratorium construction garbage-incinerator plants announcement was roundly criticized mayor koch has endorsed mr. dinkins city faces garbage crisis has already spent planning incinerator be scrapped mr. dinkins proposal public statements have times been confusing mr. dinkins position papers have more consistently reflected anti-development sentiment favors form commercial rent control financial community believes make more difficult attract investment city midst labor shortage proposes linking city subsidies businesses record hiring new york city residents untrained local labor pool many experts believe policy drive businesses city favors more cooperative approach neighboring states new jersey connecticut battle companies thinking moving employees new york city many economic-development officials say koch administration aggressive approach helped save chase manhattan bank jobs moving hudson mr. dinkins economic planks do n't seem bother business community draws significant support steven spinola president real estate board new york industry organization says mr. dinkins economic development program is shortsighted comes down be reasonable mr. dinkins inner circle advisers appears include ideologues pragmatists leaving voters little clue be more influential key man seems be campaign manager mr. lynch disheveled roly-poly son long island potato farmer mr. lynch is veteran union organizer worked presidential campaigns sen. edward kennedy mr. jackson dinkins campaign hit tough times month andrew cuomo politically seasoned son new york governor is also said have taken more active role strategy close ally is ruth messinger manhattan city councilwoman programs such commercial rent control have made way mr. dinkins position papers remains influential mr. dinkins suggest mayoralty take more anti-development flavor lincoln center president nathan leventhal head dinkins transition team is more mainstream is real-estate executive anthony gliedman insider mr. dinkins also has said receive economic advice board include american express co. chairman james d. robinson iii investment banker felix rohatyn leveraged-buy-out specialist reginald lewis attorney joseph flom business leaders others also believe mr. dinkins place significant responsibility hands deputy mayor strong administrative background names possible deputies have surfaced include former mayoral candidate richard ravitch former schools chancellor frank macchiarola messrs. leventhal gliedman then are mr. dinkins old-time harlem colleagues such u.s. rep. rangel former deputy mayor paterson mr. sutton having attained positions real influence wealth men constitute old guard new york city black politics are less confrontational younger more activist black political community has been based largely brooklyn part mr. dinkins strength is ability win support brooklyn harlem factions know are potholes city out there says mr. paterson mr. dinkins former law partner think 're going sidetrack david determination be best possible mayor obligations are making sad mistake adds ms. messinger is expected win borough president job mr. dinkins is vacating have remember david is pragmatist mr. dinkins sense pragmatism often comes more insider determination not upset political apple cart is taken aback interview asked mayor plans reforming political fiefdoms perpetuate monumental ineffectiveness new york school system sit down talk problems take political system says shake head many doubts candidacy white new yorkers gave mr. dinkins % votes primary are n't expected desert sufficient numbers turn election mr. giuliani former u.s. attorney prosecuted targets ranging mafia dons wall street executives has succeeded raising questions mr. dinkins ethical standards so far has failed generate excitement own candidacy republican overwhelmingly democratic city mr. giuliani has inherent handicap first-time candidate has been slow learn nuances new york city politicking mr. giuliani is finding mr. dinkins many years public life has built considerable good will so far has led many voters overlook certain failings bottom line is is very genuine decent guy says malcolm hoenlein jewish community leader end think david be judged being david