control data corp. just months was hemorrhaging financially thinks be healthy enough soon consider repurchasing public debt moreover company go-it-alone approach nearly proved fatal now sees alliances others way back prosperity calls data solutions business 'm not saying everything is hunky-dory have completed transition robert m. price chairman chief executive said interview transition is reference company five-year restructuring effort time control data had losses more now following asset sales shrank revenue more one-third year alone control data is flush cash so senior executives are talking openly possibly buying back company subordinated convertible debentures year like continue reduce debt president lawrence perlman said noting company is offering buy back senior notes paying % said response help determine future debt-reduction efforts offer was automatically triggered recent sale control data imprimis disk-drive business seagate technology inc mr. perlman is also acting chief financial officer odds-on favorite become next chief executive said company is achieving modest positive cash flow operations expect continue said company has intention tapping short-term bank lines good part sometime next year control data develop new bank relationship mr. perlman said recent months group lenders led bank america has extended control data up revolving loans january as well standby letters credit loan covenants require company achieve specified levels operating earnings meet rolling four-quarter profitability test last week control data reported third-quarter earnings cents share revenue first months company had loss largely reflecting closing supercomputer unit few assets are still being shopped including sports entertainment ticketing portion company ticketron unit mr. price said future restructuring be question strategy do n't need cash ticketron automated wagering business operates lotteries dozen states is not sale company said rather mr. perlman said control data intends bid coming minnesota lottery contract is seeking new applications technology overseas is great interest games skill n't elaborate control data semiconductor business vtc inc. continues lose money executives acknowledged said consider technology vital national defense so are reluctant dispose company strategy keeping computer products business profitable recently achieved profitability several quarters losses calls narrow focus lid expenses partly costs be held strategic technology alliances management said control data recently announced agreement mips computer systems inc. jointly develop machines simplified operating software james e. ousley computer products group president said such arrangements help slash control data computer research development costs end disclosed control data scrapped eta systems inc. supercomputer business past spring costs were running nearly % group revenue same time design projects were spiked said asked company hopes expand computer hardware business mr. ousley said sees good opportunities systems integration think 're getting only % integration dollars customers are spending said 're environments are going spend lot money control data mainframes are designed numerically intensive computing users such scientific engineering academic communities utilities management is major commercial niche reviewing company scrape disaster mr. price conceded had tried do too much own absolutely said stock is selling control data estimated breakup value messrs. perlman price said spends much time considering possibility hostile takeover 've been listed candidate so long 's not worth worrying said mr. price