painewebber group inc. ordered major pullback program trading mounting pressure wall street biggest investors other big brokerage firms also showed signs retreating controversial computer-assisted trading has become liability wall street month 190-point friday-the-13th plunge dow jones industrial average yesterday goldman sachs co. said campaign significant curbs most common form program trading stock-index arbitrage also other firms including american express co. shearson lehman hutton inc. unit oppenheimer co. are debating follow painewebber lead pull program trading sears roebuck co. dean witter reynolds inc. unit used be 10th-biggest program trader new york stock exchange said is sending program-bashing letter more clients next month other actions include nationwide advertising campaign program trading is simply idea time has passed said dean witter chairman philip j. purcell program trading last month accounted record % new york stock exchange volume refers variety computer-assisted trading large amounts stocks stock-index futures options much trading is geared short-term gains caused brief price swings volatile markets wall street pulled briefly program trading october stock crash then charged back in emboldened post-crash studies exonerated program trading causing crash not causing big price swings now 's reeling renewed outcry time not only small individual investors major institutions control big trading commissions criticism came head tuesday kemper corp. big insurance financial-services firm cut wall street firms engage program trading oppenheimer general electric co. kidder peabody co. morgan stanley co. bear stearns co. getting more kemper stock-trading business other big investors are following kemper lead yesterday institutional investor keystone group inc. boston mutual-fund company said boycott firms engage index arbitrage firm manages stock mutual funds firms using proprietary index-arbitrage trading techniques have been competing own customers said albert h. elfner iii president keystone actions hurt long-term fundamentally oriented investors have undermined public trust fairness markets institutional investor penn mutual life insurance co. said join kemper avoiding program-trading brokerage firms such companies keystone kemper penn mutual are dependent business small investors have been peppering complaints program trading have retreated financial markets crash have n't decided blacklist firms 's chance said david wilson head penn mutual stock portfolio are very upset has happened stock market program trading is almost sitting calm beach have tidal wave hit penn mutual owns regional brokerage firm janney montgomery scott inc. philadelphia yesterday several officials janney visited new york stock exchange lobby program trading firm executive committee is considering drafting anti-program-trading letter clients congress donald b. marron painewebber chairman chief executive officer said firm decided close trading yesterday stop doing index arbitrage clients already had ceased form trading own account seems clear index arbitrage is big contributor market volatility 's reducing confidence market institutional retail clients mr. marron said said index arbitrage is clearly purely speculative hedging arbitrage strategy is contributing excess volatility painewebber fifth-biggest program trader big board so far year continue engage other forms program trading index arbitrage indeed is wall street foremost practitioner non-arbitrage forms program trading terms volume mr. marron said other forms program trading such using computers buy sell range stocks not stock futures help bring liquidity market goldman does n't do index arbitrage does customers is concerned fallout corporate institutional individual clients are concerned perceive be excessive volatility said robert e. mnuchin senior partner charge goldman equity trading share concern consequently recommend regulators significant curbs electronic access waves stocks add volatility markets declined comment further shearson 11th-biggest program trader also does n't do index arbitrage officials regular management meeting wednesday night urged firm leaders pull practice completely appease small investors question was do get mileage not doing clients said shearson official so far answer is oppenheimer relatively minor program trader is also reviewing index-arbitrage operation not only was stung kemper boycott suffered approximate index-trading loss friday-the-13th plunge oppenheimer spokesman said index chief david liptak had left firm n't be replaced time being james wiess associate mr. liptak is now index arbitrager said spokesman program-trading debate has caused splits even wall street brokerage firms kidder peabody example firm leaders staunchly defend aggressive use index arbitrage kidder own account customers kidder is most active index arbitrager big board so far year trading about shares day strategy however kidder brokers are n't so sure index arbitrage said charles v. sheehan kidder managing director charge retail business try talk stockbrokers virtues program trading is trying talk virtues nuclear power audubon society conceded is little bit conflict there kidder active program trading wooing individual investors 's similar split merrill lynch co. big board 3rd-biggest program-trading firm merrill spokesman stressed firm does program trading only clients are clients have responsibility argument does n't go firm front lines program trading is scaring small investors said michael keyes merrill broker ogden utah new york stock exchange insists remains sympathetic individual investor richard grasso big board president said 's too early reflect comments made week kemper other program-bashing firms value relationships use marketplace are certainly sensitive needs desires kemper cut program-trading wall street firms getting big insurance financial company trading business complained big board has vested interests big member securities firms engage program trading christopher j. chipello boston contributed article average monthly program trading volume september millions shares source new york stock exchange