qintex australia ltd. media resorts concern controlled australian entrepreneur christopher skase announced plan restructure sell assets try ease financial problems mr. skase 41-year-old former newspaper reporter chairs company said statement qintex sell % stake upscale mirage resorts australia hawaii as well australian television stations sales are expected raise more australian dollars mr. skase said qintex australia has n't disclosed borrowings analysts estimate company debt mr. skase also said restructuring plan calls merger qintex australia qintex ltd. owns % qintex australia said move significantly reduce administrative operating costs did n't provide details merger company officials said weekend qintex australia bank creditors have become concerned barrage bad news company including failed plan buy communications co. beverly hills calif. movie television production concern friday qintex entertainment inc. 43%-owned u.s. affiliate filed protection creditor lawsuits chapter u.s. bankruptcy code analysts predicted move further shake creditor confidence qintex australia force sell assets company latest moves were disclosed australian stock exchange suspended trading shares qintex australia qintex ltd. companies had n't answered exchange inquiry extent loans investments deposits qintex entertainment mr. skase statement was addressed stock exchange appeared be response inquiry said qintex entertainment owes qintex australia loans not secured specific assets qintex australia also said has investment qintex entertainment shares statement mr. skase said basis current interest rates australia company asset sales reduce interest expense about year addition eliminating certain liabilities march qintex sold % mirage resorts japan nippon shinpan co. mitsui co. yesterday statement did n't say japanese companies acquire qintex remaining stake resorts shares were suspended trading qintex australia plunged australian cents u.s. cents share yesterday australian cents friday shares traded about march plan acquire was announced qintex ltd. shares sank yesterday friday mr. skase statement cited recent problems said had cut group cash flow more were called unlawful termination acquisition agreement qintex high australian interest rates pilots strike australian domestic airlines cut revenue company australian resorts delays completing sale regional tv stations queensland state has sued qintex australia breach contract fraud collapsed acquisition agreement qintex australia has threatened countersuit qintex australia has n't yet reported results fiscal year ended july statement mr. skase said preliminary accounts showed group profit interest tax depreciation exceed gave further details shareholders funds july were estimated more mr. skase said compared year earlier company make adequate provisions cover costs dispute loss investment qintex entertainment said mr. skase also disclosed disagreement directors qintex australia certain fees claimed qintex group management services pty. management-services concern qintex australia executives have interest qintex australia paid management company latest fiscal year mr. skase said most money went other parties expenses such rent travel smaller portion is owed senior executives others management services non-executive directors qintex australia approve payments senior executives balked amount directors resigned mr. skase said payments have n't yet been approved