treasury secretary nicholas brady said congress grant securities exchange commission power close stock markets periods crisis testimony senate securities subcommittee mr. brady disputed view sec chairman richard breeden told house panel wednesday does n't want ability halt markets mr. breeden contended discretionary power have impact markets rumors were circulate exchanges be closed added president already has power close markets emergency mr. brady argued sec is closer markets better position understand exchanges are such stress be closed separately mr. brady said asked working group financial markets determine futures margins are too low noted minimum margin requirements have been reduced levels crash raises questions futures equity margin requirements are consistent levels futures margins are adequate mr. brady said margins are amount money investor needs put up buy sell futures contract margins futures exchanges typically are raised lowered according market volatility chicago mercantile exchange margins standard poor stock-index futures stood contract speculators hedgers oct. day hedging margin was raised margins were raised lowered dozen times crash oct. currently stand speculators are typically individuals non-member traders hedgers are usually institutions have offsetting positions underlying stocks mr. brady also said expects leveraged buy-out phenomenon end own weight asked is anything congress do curb lbo boom mr. brady responded think lbo phenomenon n't stop completely be thing past taking action advised panel see market has produced cure mr. brady also agreed senators concerns recent stock-market volatility said realizes gyrations are scaring investors investing stocks added individuals still are participating equity market indirectly mutual funds pension funds former wall street executive refused offer opinion controversy surrounding program trading has recently become larger part trading market has been blamed accelerating drop weeks ago do not have view do anything program trading time said mr. brady endorsed market-revision bill houses congress try push session bill proposed sec last year require brokerage firms disclose financial positions holding companies mandate large traders reporting program block trades improve clearing settlement trades futures stock markets bill also give sec power close markets discretion former sec chairman david ruder wanted mr. breeden does n't mr. brady senators agreed have staffs meet next week start fine-tuning bill