next kohlberg kravis roberts megabillion rjr nabisco deal sci television is small fry troubles sci tv are classic tale leveraged buy-out excesses especially asset-stripping game sci tv expects release plan restructure debt next day so is n't just lbo went bad piling debt did do cable tv station company was lbo lbo set assets were leveraged twice enabling blue-chip buy-out king henry kravis take more cash com pany sci tv buy-out was ace hole mr. kravis investors kkr partnerships has left holders sci tv junk bonds holding bag including heavyweights kkr need finance future deals such kemper financial services first executive columbia savings loan prudential insurance co. america junk-holders are said be considering legal action kkr moves force sci tv bankruptcy court kkr majority partner sci tv buy-out nashville tenn. entrepreneur george gillett also is said be very unhappy sci tv stations once were part storer communications kkr loaded cable television company debt buy-out then later sold storer cable operations fat profit kkr second time piled debt storer tv stations selling new entity was 45%-owned kkr 55%-owned gillett corp. now operates sci tv stations second lbo kkr hand took more cash tv company assets moved storer cable operations making more valuable sale storer also took junior sci tv bonds partial payment tv assets other hand kkr put back sci tv less % cash had taken buying sci tv common preferred shares so kkr today has estimated sunk now-shaky sci tv including equity debt lbo firm still is ahead sci tv buy-out taking cash front storer whole kkr racked compound annual returns % years owned storer meanwhile mr. gillett risks losing entire equity investment sci tv company n't be restructured overall mr. gillett holding company gillett holdings is heavily indebted vail mountain resorts is n't doing very well tv business falling hard times recent years analysts say sci tv had be liquidated today fetch % less buy-out wiping most company junk-holders stockholders meanwhile sci tv barely pay cash interest bill stay bankruptcy court soon reschedule lot bank loans junk bonds have fallen due sci tv grace period paying bills is due expire nov. now is quietly circulating creditors preliminary plan restructure debt negotiations have started con structively 's not say like particular offer says wilbur ross rothschild inc. adviser sci tv junk-holders major player sci tv deal talk publicly 's understood mr. kravis is disappointed mr. gillett did n't manage boost sci tv operating profit buy-out mr. kravis apparently thinks sci tv survive lenders extend debt payments tv stations rise value again allowing sci tv sell assets pay debt mr. gillett is said be proud operating record has lifted stations ratings turned detroit station junk-holders 're discovering be mistake take other side trade kkr bonds sci tv now are being quoted prices ranging only cents cents dollar according r.d. smith co. new york trades distressed securities people have seen sci tv restructuring plan say offers concessions kkr gillett corp give part combined common equity sci tv holders sci tv junk bonds carrot persuade accept new bonds reduce value claims company militant sci tv junk-holders say 's not enough contend sci tv equity now is worthless add is n't costing kkr anything give equity big up-front cash profit buy-out think contributed sci tv current problems kemper biggest holder senior sci tv bonds has refused join bond-holders committee is said be reviewing legal options protect claims junk-holders want kkr perhaps mr. gillett invest new money sci tv perhaps more investment banker is n't involved deal says sci tv needs least new equity survive junk-holders say have stick beat kkr threat bankruptcy is legitimate tool extract money kkr says big sci tv holder be first major bankruptcy-law proceeding kkr adds big bankruptcy-court case tarnish kkr name provide new fuel critics lbos washington elsewhere others say junk-holders have nothing gain putting sci tv bankruptcy-law proceedings kkr does n't control sci tv is unusual kkr investment clearly has much deeper pockets mr. gillett bankruptcy specialists say mr. kravis set precedent putting new money sour lbos recently kkr restructured foundering seaman furniture doubling kkr equity stake seaman kkr was only trying salvage original investment says bankruptcy investor james rubin sass lamle rubin new york contrast kkr probably has already made money sci tv people know mr. kravis say is n't hurry pour more money sci tv