confidence pound is widely expected take sharp dive trade figures september due release tomorrow fail show substantial improvement july august near-record deficits chancellor exchequer nigel lawson restated commitment firm monetary policy has helped prevent freefall sterling past week analysts reckon underlying support sterling has been eroded chancellor failure announce new policy measures mansion house speech last thursday has increased risk government being forced increase base rates % current % level defend pound economists foreign exchange market analysts say risks sterling bad trade figure are very heavily down side said chris dillow senior u.k. economist nomura research institute is bad trade number be awful lot pressure noted simon briscoe u.k. economist midland montagu unit midland bank plc forecasts trade figures range widely few economists expect data show very marked improvement deficit current account reported august august deficit gap registered july are topped only deficit october sanjay joshi european economist baring brothers co. said is sign britain manufacturing industry is transforming boost exports same time remains fairly pessimistic outlook imports given continued high consumer capital goods inflows reckons current account deficit narrow only september however mr. dillow said believes reduction raw material stockbuilding industry lead sharp drop imports combined least rebound exports august unexpected decline deficit narrow as little mr. briscoe also forecasts current account gap warns even trade figures are bullish sterling currency n't advance much investors want see further evidence turnaround adjusting positions nevertheless noted want go trade figures flat position pound meanwhile overall evidence economy remains fairly clouded mansion house speech mr. lawson warned further slowdown be expected impact last rise interest rates earlier month takes effect u.k. base rates are highest level years consumer expenditure data released friday do n't suggest u.k. economy is slowing that quickly figures show spending rose % third quarter second quarter was up % year ago compares % rise second first quarter % increase second quarter mr. dillow said data show economy is still quite strong suggestions much spending went services rather consumer goods reduce fears more import rises certainly chancellor has made clear is prepared increase interest rates again necessary ensure substantial slowdown does take place sterling does n't decline further thursday reminded audience government not allow necessary rigor monetary policy be undermined exchange rate weakness analysts agree is little holding sterling firm moment other mr. lawson promise rates be pushed higher necessary warn further drop government popularity swiftly make promise sound hollow sterling was already showing signs lack confidence mr. lawson promise friday european trading declined marks marks late thursday economists suggested pound falls much marks government be forced increase rates % halt further decline ensure balance monetary policy remains unchanged friday market activity dollar posted gains quiet trading concerns equities abated foreign exchange dealers said currency market has begun distance volatile stock exchange has preoccupied market oct. dow jones industrial average plunged more points currency analysts predict coming week foreign exchange market shift focus back economic fundamentals keeping close eye signs monetary easing u.s. federal reserve late new york trading day dollar was quoted marks up marks late thursday new york u.s. currency was also changing hands yen up yen new york late thursday tokyo monday u.s. currency opened trading yen up friday tokyo close yen commodity exchange new york gold current delivery settled ounce up cents estimated volume was light ounces early trading hong kong monday gold was quoted ounce