gaf part iii is scheduled begin today mistrials stakes stock manipulation trial gaf corp. vice chairman james t. sherwin have changed considerably first gaf trials were watched closely wall street were considered be important tests government ability convince jury allegations stemming insider-trading investigations eight-count indictment government charged gaf wayne n.j. chemical maker mr. sherwin illegally attempting manipulate common stock union carbide corp. advance gaf planned sale large block stock government credibility gaf case depended heavily star witness boyd l. jefferies former los angeles brokerage chief was implicated former arbitrager ivan boesky then pointed finger mr. sherwin takeover speculator salim b. lewis corporate raider paul bilzerian gaf trials were viewed previews government strength cases mr. lewis mr. bilzerian mr. jefferies performance witness was expected affect sentencing gaf bellwether role was short-lived first gaf trial ended mistrial weeks u.s. district judge mary johnson lowe found prosecutor improperly unintentionally withheld document hours deliberation jurors second trial said were hopelessly deadlocked mistrial was declared march meanwhile federal jury found mr. bilzerian guilty securities fraud other charges june month later mr. jefferies was spared jail term federal judge praised helping government august mr. lewis pleaded guilty felony counts nevertheless stakes are still high players directly involved gaf case mistrials have left reputations gaf mr. sherwin gaf chairman samuel heyman limbo mr. sherwin conviction carry penalties years prison fine count gaf faces potential fines count individuals familiar case said september defense attorneys were talking government effort prevent trial end month talks had ended is much speculation attorneys not involved strategy gaf attorney arthur liman mr. sherwin counsel stephen kaufman include testimony mr. sherwin mr. heyman testified previous trials now defense attorneys are tight-lipped plans max gitter gaf defense attorney said yesterday go third time yogi berra famous line is apt 's deja vu all over again dalkon shield claimants hope stop reorganization-plan appeal attorneys more women claim injuries dalkon shield contraceptive device have asked u.s. supreme court refuse hear appeal bankruptcy-law reorganization plan a.h. robins co. manufactured device dispute pits groups claimants other baltimore attorney michael a. pretl other attorneys representing claimants u.s. abroad argue appeal delay perhaps even destroy settlement fund is centerpiece reorganization plan bankruptcy-court reorganization is being challenged supreme court dissident group claimants places cap total amount money available settle claims also bars future suits robins company officials members robins family robins former insurer aetna life casualty co latter provision is legally unprecedented said alan b. morrison public interest lawyer washington d.c. is challenging plan behalf claimants more claims robins are pending company made marketed dalkon shield early 1970s mounting evidence cause serious injuries robins has been proceedings chapter u.s. bankruptcy code august such proceedings give protection creditor lawsuits works plan paying debts american home products corp. wants acquire robins only legal challenges plan are exhausted brief filed supreme court last week mr. pretl criticizes appeal raising abstract theoretical legal issues jeopardizing proposed reorganization settlement payments claimants supreme court is scheduled consider case nov. issue decision as early nov. jury criminal conviction superfund law is first charles a. donohoo sole proprieter louisville ky. demolition company was found guilty violating superfund law as well clean air act criminal convictions federal superfund law are rare decision is first jury verdict case superfund owned generated transported hazardous waste are liable cleanup regardless actions were legal time environmental lawyers say virtually superfund cases date have involved civil penalties designed insure cleanup past polluting activities superfund also contains criminal provision concerning release toxic substances environment congress strengthened penalty making felony mr. donohoo was convicted louisville late last month violating superfund failing report release asbestos environment building was demolishing was also convicted failing properly remove asbestos building violation clean air act government sought criminal penalty cleanup is possible here once asbestos is released environment lodge anywhere says richard a. dennis assistant u.s. attorney prosecuted case mr. donohoo is scheduled be sentenced dec. lawyer not be reached comment mr. donohoo faces as much years prison fine superfund conviction as much year prison fine violation clean air act ted bundy's lawyers switch victims side death-sentence case wilmer cutler pickering washington d.c. law firm spent fighting execution mass-murderer ted bundy eventually was executed has taken death penalty case supreme court time side family murder victims arkansas law firm has filed friend-of-the-court brief jointly washington legal foundation conservative legal group key issue case law firm is handling fee is person sentenced death voluntarily waive rights appellate review murderer ronald gene simmons was convicted killing people murderer death row has appealed mr. simmons death sentence next friend capacity wilmer cutler brief argues is mandatory appellate review capital sentences inmate filed appeal lacks proper standing p.j. mode wilmer cutler managing partner says trial team represented mr. bundy was asked firm committee new case posed conflict objections were raised coupling law firm washington legal foundation is odd also wilmer cutler was firms singled criticism years ago conservative legal group displaying liberal bias work give lot credit taking case says wlf alan slobodin case fake dalis federal court manhattan defendants pleaded guilty charges fraud connection sale fake salvador dali lithographs james burke larry evans formerly owners now-defunct barclay gallery prudence clark barclay sales representative were charged conducting high-pressure telephone sales misrepresented cheap copies dali artwork signed limited-edition lithographs posters were sold government says had value only apiece henry pitman assistant u.s. attorney handling case said about customers were defrauded barclay total proceeds sales were attorneys messrs. burke evans ms. clarke said clients admitted making misrepresentations sales had believed works were authorized mr. dali died january posters were printed paper pre-signed mr. dali attorneys said