now pick phone do n't do anything rash last friday stock-market plunge investment professionals cautioned people resist urge call brokers sell stocks not selling panic turned be very good advice market volatility dow jones industrial average has surged points past days now semblance normalcy returning advisers say 's time investors take hard cold look stocks own consider careful pruning market is sending nervous signals says peter j. canelo chief market strategist bear stearns co. 's unwise be overcommitted stocks alan weston president weston capital management los angeles money-management firm adds periods uncertainty today 's good time cut dead branches portfolio not everybody agrees 's time trim are n't inclined prune stock portfolios now says steven g. einhorn chairman investment policy committee goldman sachs co investors stay stocks expect choppy sloppy market short period do n't think be ugly downside is limited even say selective selling be order stress individuals need be stock market achieve long-term investment objectives help balance other assets selling say be well thought-out executed gradually market rallies offer suggestions get rid dogs sell stocks are n't doing well now do n't have good earnings prospects says alfred goldman technical analyst st. louis-based a.g. edwards sons most people do just opposite sell winners keep losers types stocks are most likely qualify technology stocks says mr. goldman watch earnings disappointments company does n't have post loss be candidate sale says charles i. clough jr. chief market strategist merrill lynch co earnings do n't live analysts expectations says 's enough dump stock john markese director research american association individual investors raises cautionary note substituting rule thumb own judgment be mistake says earnings disappointment reflect situation 's short-term mr. clough says risk is earnings disappointments continue economy is decelerating good years right now 's better shoot first ask questions later types stocks currently have greatest earnings risks computer companies commodity cyclical stocks autos retailing stocks says beware heavy debt companies apt run earnings problems soonest are ones heavy debt loads says larry biehl partner san mateo calif. money-management firm bailard biehl kaiser mr. canelo bear stearns agrees do have economic slowdown says companies high debt ratios be dumped masse best course individual investors is sell stocks now advisers say sell whisper stocks ual corp. difficulty obtaining bank financing leveraged buy-out resulting price plunge is tip-off 's going happen takeover stocks says mr. canelo takeover activity slow as more more banks tighten lending requirements says be fewer fewer deals moreover many financial advisers say individuals be stock market long-term investors not traders trying catch next hot stock general say avoid takeover stocks compare ratios prospects mr. canelo suggests investors compare ratios price share stock divided company per-share earnings 12-month period projected growth rates think earnings grow % year 's all right pay times earnings says do n't pay times earnings company 's expected grow % year mr. canelo thinks market probably go higher be ruthless stocks earnings are n't there mr. markese cautions investors n't slavishly follow specific sell trigger say sell anytime company ratio exceeds knocks growth stocks says eliminate companies substantial prospects are moving price examine has changed tom schlesinger market analyst a.g. edwards sons inc. says investors consider selling has been fundamental change company bought stock say purchased stock new product was works now various difficulties product has been scrapped time sell says mr. schlesinger similarly says suppose were attracted company expectations sales hit things have n't worked well sales n't hit 's time consider selling says