october was edgy month practitioners glasnost official soviet policy allowing more candor nation media superstars glasnost vitaly korotich editor trail-blazing weekly ogonyok friday oct. was somersaulting day turned tension elation had been summoned central committee soviet communist party finished lunch savoy hotel unlikely prelude bureaucratic brow-beating eight-foot-tall rubenesquely naked ladies float canvases ceiling teeming cherubs surrounded gilt laid pastry chef trowel supported marble corinthian columns capitals are fluting fountains gold had mr. korotich been called told driver said was taking butt central committee whack whack whack hand made vigorous spanking gestures left palm feel need time time educate indeed later reported was import meeting anxious allies president mikhail gorbachev are cautioning media leaders take easy be careful not do anything be used mr. gorbachev opponents government is nervous according mr. korotich was present mr. gorbachev publicized tongue-lashing press oct. was more plea be careful boys use good judgment 're standing gasoline so do n't smoke u.s. northern european diplomats confirm mr. korotich assessment glasnost is immediate danger fact very high-ranking soviet official told american official diplomatic dinner change policy was contemplated day conversation residence u.s. ambassador brezhnevite editor pravda victor afnasjev was replaced college classmate mr. gorbachev brezhnevite holdovers have more fear mr. gorbachev verbal spanking gave press end very week mr. korotich was called central committee ogonyok was again demonstrating independence printing poll showed % soviet population plurality believed mr. gorbachev economic reforms result only insignificant change good measurement popularity ice-breaker journals ogonyok is circulation mr. korotich took sold copies today sells pravda meanwhile has retained only % readership has made celebrities men mr. korotich prevented communist party getting slate nominees new supreme soviet stood independent candidate congress native ukraine won % vote same evening was summoned warning party was cheered thousands supporters rally only be called korotich party as astounding changes have already occurred are is fragility censorship is n't marxist invention czars were no civil libertarians as late russian government prevented coverage famines even directed newspapers not publish anything stain honor turkish sultan wives is not value woven steel threads fabric russian society is admirable public relations program initiated single political leader four-year blink history is public relations highest sophistication recognizes credibility is enhanced honesty point is point ogonyok begin series reports analyzing failures be destroying replies mr. korotich then asks accomplish answer reveals vulnerability also draws line soviet society cross enter normal dialogue western culture is line press report not only bankruptcy factories failures even admirable leaders mr. ayers is editor publisher anniston ala. star