growing crowd japanese investors buying foreign companies are n't all strait-laced businessmen dark suits yasumichi morishita art gallery last month became major shareholder christies international plc london auction house is man does n't fit mold japan 's known racy weekly magazines king shady money nothing else 57-year-old past has share dents nearly years ago mr. morishita founder chairman aichi corp. finance company received 10-month suspended sentence tokyo court violating money-lending law income tax law was convicted charging interest rates much higher law permitted attempting evade income taxes using double accounting system had other brushes law was arrested not indicted least other occasions assault unlawful confinement fraud forgery private documents extortion christies says has had contact mr. morishita stock purchase 's happy deal like make own judgments mr. morishita says christopher davidge christies group managing director people have different reputation country country mr. morishita is leading figure japan lend small companies lend individuals many financiers lend freely often demanding collateral interest rates charge are often japan % legal limit says kenji utsunomiya lawyer specializing loan troubles aichi is mr. utsunomiya says nasty ones describing business general says client n't repay loan clutch hyenas even take client company last month mr. morishita new gallery aska international ltd. purchased % christies acquired carisbrook holdings u.k. ltd. company owned australian financier robert holmes court stake was apparently first kind aska entity separate aichi acquisition made aska christies top shareholders left many people wondering man was intentions were 're investor mr. morishita says sitting back purple gallery filled monets renoirs long run stock prices go 's not clear aska plans buy more shares christies mr. morishita insists is happy see become long-term stockholder mr. morishita considers connoisseur art years collecting impressionist japanese paintings has acquired items says enough persuade start museum year says spent art business year week ago gallery racked tab sotheby auction new york buying works including picasso makes snap judgments says kiyotaka kori art gallery manager mr. morishita secretary more years mr. morishita main business certainly appears be thriving n't disclose numbers according teikoku data bank ltd. tracks company earnings aichi revenue rose % yen year ended february revenue doubled years ago is company reported results correctly asahi shimbun japanese daily last month reported aichi revised tax calculations being challenged allegedly failing report income tax authorities two-year period tokyo regional taxation office declines comment mr. kori tycoon secretary says problem simply resulted difference opinion was considered income small wiry mr. morishita comes outspoken man world stretching arms silky white shirt squeaking black shoes lectures visitor way sell american real estate boasts friendship margaret thatcher son asked exactly does business immediately takes offense are stupid snaps know questions ask get people answer not many people know details mr. morishita business 's source rumors shady dealings small company goes belly-up instance gossipy weekly magazines are often quick link demise aichi mr. morishita scoffs stories as well ones connecting japanese mob says has never even dined gangsters seventh child store owner aichi prefecture mr. morishita started textile business there set finance company rapidly expanded lending investment real estate building golf courses spends most weekends flying helicopter courses says were designed jack nicklaus also owns courses u.s. france gruff financier recently started socializing upper-class circles says was n't keen going last year attended new york gala daughter made debut also leads opulent life style even denenchofu tokyo richest neighborhoods mr. morishita splashy brick manor some houses owns outshines neighbors lavish white portico stained-glass window towers brick wall surrounding property mr. morishita says little business offers rule success never gamble too far quit try win lose says 'm done minutes mr. morishita says intends expand business many other areas home abroad be there 's money be made laughs mr. kori secretary knows says heard soybeans make money today be flying chicago tomorrow