's somethin' strange neighborhood 's something weird do n't look good gon call starters people call ed lorraine warren comes busting ghosts monroe conn. couple are perfect demons claim have busted spirits poltergeists other spooks hundreds houses country say now get legitimate calls week people harried haunts firmly believe angels devils ghosts says mr. warren business card identifies demonologist psychics do n't work house still seems haunted call swelling band skeptics such richard busch professional magician musician heads pittsburgh branch committee scientific investigation paranormal mr. busch says is scientific explanation haunts even tell encourage spirits have do is eat big pizza then go bed says have weird dreams too way ghostbusting business is going gangbusters tales haunts horrors are proliferating nation elm streets amityvilles get calls nearly day people have ghosts house says raymond hyman skeptical psychology professor university oregon public opinion poll published october issue parents magazine third queried said believe ghosts spirits make known people movies books tabloids even nancy reagan is boosting stuff says paul kurtz philosophy professor state university new york buffalo heads committee scientific investigation paranormal committee formed now has chapters world spirits course hardly care less people do do n't believe do n't even give nod human sensibilities celebrating halloween spooks 's just day ectoplasmic business usual ghostbusters say holiday seems occasion unusual number ghost reports busiest ghostbusters is robert baker 68-year-old semi-retired university kentucky psychology professor bushy gray eyebrows arch mere mention ghost mr. baker says has personally bested more haunts aliens poltergeists mr. baker heads kentucky association science educators skeptics hollywood ghostbusters kentucky stand ready roll haunts get hand do n't careen old cadillac wear funny suits blast away slimy spirits mr. baker drives chevy usually wears tweed jacket ghostbusting forays 've never met ghost n't be explained away perfectly natural means says louisville woman complained ghost was haunting attic mr. baker discovered rat dragging trap rafters foul-smelling demon supposedly plagued house mannington ky mr. baker found opening house led fume-filled coal mine weather cools mr. baker says hobos often hole abandoned houses people see activity there next thing know 've got haunting says recent afternoon mr. baker reporter go ghost-busting visiting kathleen stinnett lexington woman has phoned university kentucky report mysterious happenings house mrs. stinnett says never believed ghosts before lately vacuum cleaner turned telephone flew stand doors slammed inexplicably heard footsteps empty kitchen was doing laundry nearly broke neck running upstairs see was there was nobody says eyes wide recollection mr. baker hears pokes bit asks few questions proposes explanations self-starting vacuum cleaner says be cuddles mrs. stinnett dog flying telephone tangle base cord chair leg receiver does seem fly off ghostly footsteps interstate is block away heavy traffic sure set house vibrating 'm not sure explained everything mrs. stinnett says grudgingly are things have gone here nobody explain says mr. baker promises return haunting continues especially stubborn haunts mr. baker carries secret weapon vial cornstarch tell people 's groundup bones saints says sprinkle little tell demons leave 's reassuring usually works oregon mr. hyman has investigated claims flying cats apparitions bouncing chandeliers has come plausible explanation says invariably says eyewitnesses are untrustworthy years ago canadian reader bet omni magazine n't debunk uncanny goings-on oregon vortex former indian burial ground southern oregon viewers distance visitors spot seemed shrink disproportionately relative background magazine called mr. hyman consultant showed carpenter level carefully measured surface showed apparent shrinkage was caused perspective very striking illusion mr. hyman says now voice dripping skepticism illusion nevertheless canadian wound writing check rev. alphonsus trabold theology professor exorcism expert st. bonaventure university olean n.y. frequently is asked exorcise unruly spirits often obliges certain occasions spirit be earthbound make known says happens father trabold often uses calls therapeutic exorcism few prayers admonition spirit leave person believes 's evil spirit ask be gone says suggestion do healing sometimes more energetic attacks are required wrestle demon house owned litchfield conn. woman warrens recently called exorcist rev. robert mckenna dissident clergyman hews catholic church old latin liturgy attend so does television crew new york city mr. warren pronounces litchfield case typical demonic infestation scottish dwarf built small red house years ago now demonic ghost haunts mr. warren says owner begs anonymity asserts dwarf appearing dark shadow has manhandled tossing living room yanking hank hair previous exorcisms have failed is very tenacious ghost mr. warren says darkly father mckenna moves house praying latin urging demon split suddenly woman begins swaying then writhing 's being attacked demon mrs. warren stagewhispers priest sprinkles holy water squirming woman television camera grinds half-hour later woman is smiling chatting demon seems have gone mr. warren says woman has psychic burns back confrontation declines show was invisible powerful force 's almost impossible layman contemplate mr. warren says solemnly ghostbusting entourage packs leave time says think got lyrics ghostbusters ray s. parker jr. golden torch music corp. ascap raydiola music ascap administrative rights u.s. jointly controlled companies international copyright secured made usa rights reserved reprinted permission