nicaraguan president daniel ortega have accomplished weekend u.s. antagonists have failed do revive constituency contra rebels lawmakers have n't publicly raised possibility renewing military aid contras president bush parried question news conference here saturday saying only 's all-out military offensive 's going change equation degrees mr. ortega threat weekend end 19-month cease-fire rebels seeking topple effectively elevated contras policy priority just were slipping agendas most ardent supporters senate majority leader george mitchell d. maine said yesterday nbc-tv meet the press mr. ortega threat was very unwise move particularly timing threat came two-day celebration costa rica highlight central america progress democracy region attended president bush canadian prime minister brian mulroney other western hemisphere leaders mr. bush returned washington saturday night mr. ortega announced friday end cease-fire week response periodic contra assaults army saturday amended remarks say continue abide cease-fire u.s. ends financial support contras asked remaining u.s. humanitarian aid be diverted disarming demobilizing rebels not only did mr. ortega comments come midst was intended showcase region came nicaragua is special international scrutiny anticipation planned february elections outside observers are gathering nicaragua monitor registration treatment opposition candidates important u.s. lawmakers decide end november contras are receive rest so-called humanitarian assistance bipartisan agreement reached bush administration march humanitarian assistance pays supplies such food clothing rebels amassed nicaraguan border honduras replaced military aid cut congress february few lawmakers anticipated humanitarian aid be cut next month mr. ortega threat practically guarantees humanitarian aid be continued senate minority leader robert dole r. kan said yesterday meet the press hope mr. ortega act yesterday day have unanimous support quick action remaining humanitarian aid sen. dole also said hoped unanimous support resolution plans offer tomorrow denouncing nicaraguan leader renewing military aid had been considered question rejected congress de-emphasized bush administration mr. ortega statement provides contra supporters opportunity press administration issue administration now state february election is voided sandinistas call military aid said former assistant secretary state elliott abrams circumstances think win sen. mitchell said congressional democrats intend honor march agreement give non-lethal support contras february elections added agreement requires contras not initiate military action mr. ortega threat breach cease-fire comes u.s. officials were acknowledging contras have times violated secretary state james baker accompanied president bush costa rica told reporters friday have reason deny reports contras ambushed sandinista soldiers mr. baker assistant inter-american affairs bernard aronson maintaining sandinistas had also broken cease-fire acknowledged 's never very clear starts added u.s. has cut aid rebel units was determined units broke cease-fire addition undermining arguments favor ending contra aid mr. ortega remarks also played suspicions u.s. officials conservatives government is searching ways manipulate void february elections administration officials traveling president bush costa rica interpreted mr. ortega 's wavering sign is n't responding military attacks so much is searching ways strengthen hand prior elections mr. abrams said mr. ortega is seeking demobilize contras prior elections remove pressure hold fair elections sense is have mind is excuse clamping campaigning creating atmosphere military emergency said