melvin belli san francisco law offices have been epicenter legal activity tuesday earthquake first minutes office telephone service was restored yesterday morning potential clients had called seeking services self-proclaimed king torts mr. belli many other personal-injury lawyers suspects earthquake measured richter scale generate enough lawsuits keep city personal-injury construction lawyers busy quite time suits are likely be filed engineering firms contractors developers as well local-government agencies lawyers looking cash quake have tough time cases reach judge experts california tort law say protections afforded government agencies such cases are pretty ironclad even claims individuals companies face significant roadblocks major legal barrier is principle be held liable act god now says laurence drivon president-elect 6,000-member california trial lawyers association last thing really need worry is anybody is going get sued have liability not still have people wandering around daze san francisco worrying 's going rain tonight n't stop plaintiffs lawyers seeking little room maneuvering san francisco argue earthquake was near certainty therefore engineering firms construction contractors developers be sued not keeping structures standard government agencies be held accountable failing properly protect citizens such foreseeable disaster negligence be proven prediction is be mass litigation errors omissions engineering contracting says stanley chesley well-known cincinnati plaintiffs lawyer saw television mr. chesley points interstate collapsed killed more commuters suffered serious damage surrounding buildings appeared sustain damage whatsoever adds were aware propensity earthquakes san andreas fault flamboyant publicity-conscious mr. belli says already has investigators looking be held liable damage bay bridge interstate approaching n't know smoke clears 're looking says mr. belli says wants know state federal engineers private companies have prevented damage mr. belli was candlestick park world series tuesday night says has hired civil engineers check own mildly damaged building investigate bridge collapse defense lawyers perhaps understandably say plaintiffs lawyers taking such approach have little success pursuing claims add facts case be looked individually lot is going be code-related says ignazio j. ruvolo construction law specialist bronson bronson mckinnon san francisco law firm plaintiffs says argue damaged structures were n't built proper design standards defendants prove met san francisco stringent building codes 's probably going protect mr. ruvolo says government entities continues mr. ruvolo be protected california government tort liability act statute agencies are provided defenses normally are n't available private sector mr. ruvolo says legislature does not want inhibit unique government activities exposing public entities liability built statute are so-called design immunities are likely protect government agencies according mr. ruvolo richard covert lawyer california department transportation oversees damaged bay bridge state is protected plans designs public structures were approved ahead time structures met previously approved standards says mr. covert believes defenses well apply bay bridge collapse nevertheless adds n't get totally shocked get lawsuits bay bridge 's going be race courthouse has n't started yet mr. covert had search law books scattered floor office yesterday mr. belli courtyard was strewn bricks wednesday mr. belli staff was n't permitted office city officials worried safety said set shop sidewalk front town-house office helped victims apply federal aid free charge news release issued mr. drivon trial lawyers association also promised free assistance victims association said monitor conduct lawyers warned solicitation business is unethical