government issues first reading third-quarter real gross national product week report is expected disclose much tamer inflation consensus view real gnp total value nation output goods services adjusted inflation calls % gain down second quarter % according mms international unit mcgraw-hill inc. new york inflation measured gnp deflator thursday report is expected rise only % down % second quarter inflation be real surprise said samuel d. kahan chief financial economist kleinwort benson government securities inc. chicago gets people excited serve impetus fixed-income markets lower rates added week other notable indicators include mid-october auto sales september durable goods orders as well september personal income personal consumption saving rate most are expected fall previous-month levels many economists see even slower gnp growth remainder year leaning more strongly possible recession addition softer production data weaker housing starts lower corporate profits currently evidence analysts believe recent natural disasters hurricane hugo san francisco earthquake carry economic ramifications fourth quarter recent one-day 190-point drop dow jones industrial average seems be significant economists mainly tacit comment poor quality third-quarter profits now being reported stock market is sick profits are crumbling says michael k. evans president evans economics inc. washington economy noted moves market not vice versa other hand mr. evans expects hurricane earthquake take hunk fourth-quarter gnp estimate % third-quarter gnp is higher consensus largely believes current inventories are n't as low official figures indicate demand believes is being met overhang rather new production large economists believe natural catastrophes limit economic damage regions edward j. campbell economist brown brothers harriman co. new york noted large increases construction activity government private relief efforts offset loss production areas gary ciminero economist financial group providence r.i. expects deflator rise % well second quarter % partly believes be temporarily better price behavior expects real gnp growth only % quarter noting wider trade deficit slower capital government spending lower inventory figures sung won sohn chief economist norwest corp. minneapolis holds recent stock-market volatility increases possibility economic recession reinforces bad news recent trade deficit employment housing reports consensus calls % increase september personal income % gain consumption august personal income rose % personal consumption increased % charles lieberman managing director financial markets reasearch manufacturers hanover securities corp. new york said hurrican hugo shaved % % personal-income growth greatly diminished rental income tourism durable goods orders september due tomorrow are expected show slip % compared august % increase usual estimates fickle report are wide running drop % gain %