company sells billions dollars military hardware year northrop corp. is pressing awfully hard get mere missing funds way 've been accounted are center long-running dispute los angeles aerospace company well-connected korean enterprise called asia culture travel development co news northrop korean dealings became public last year company has insisted sunk money proposed hotel venture seoul losing everything was bamboozled korean con men koreans say hotel was ruse beginning northrop really intended bribe government officials buy ill-fated f-20 tigershark jet fighter now document released house energy commerce subcommittee alleges northrop tried cover purportedly illicit payments forging signatures shuffling millions dollars banks even paying hush money middlemen threatened disclose scam authorities allegations were given subcommittee testimony august document featuring passel new details is sure revive interest matter capitol hill lawmakers week are deciding appropriations northrop most important pentagon program b-2 stealth bomber asia culture travel submitted document part legal defense international chamber commerce is arbitrating case asia culture travel northrop subcommittee investigator works chairman john dingell d. mich. called information major step forward own inquiry federal grand jury also is actively trying determine northrop violated foreign corrupt practices act northrop has strongly denied illegalities said august made extensive filing chamber rebuts point point allegations asia culture travel copy was n't immediately available filing chamber though northrop stressed view is not complex case is instead straightforward breach-of-contract dispute company added asia culture travel allegations are so contradictory inconsistent provide powerful evidence koreans deceived northrop pitching hotel project asia culture travel lays much different story 52-page brief northrop first contact koreans version tangled events goes occurred summer northrop approached dong yang express co. bus company was run lee minha brother-in-law was late park chong kyu powerful businessman mr. park pistol-packing owner notorious seoul night spot called safari club was member seoul olympic organizing committee easy access highest echelons korean government brief alleges northrop way honolulu-based consultant named james shin proposed idea selling korea as many f-20s dong yang express was receive % commission cap part arrangement document contends northrop was asked invest sofitel seoul high-class hotel was be built site dong yang express garage is typical american companies invest foreign countries want trade arms thereby offsetting cost currency conversion contracts overseas government was still initially puzzling northrop approached bus company do first thought made sense offer express bus company distribution up-to-date fighters mr. lee told public prosecutors seoul have also investigated situation according document later learned was not dong yang express mr. park chong kyu northrop aimed contact may document asserts northrop officials met mr. park known best americans c.k. park allegedly asked perform promotional activities f-20 brief says mr. park then asked front adding procure such expenses budget sofitel hotel project approved northrop northrop declined brief says representatives pointed payoff be illegal payment done constitute scandal document alleges did n't take long northrop mr. park devised new scheme funnel money conduit filing insists was be hotel project time joint venture asia culture travel park-affiliated concern promotional materials touting asia culture travel were delivered northrop appear have been signed kang oh-hyun official firm fact filing alleges were forged mr. shin northrop consultant brief says other procedural forms relating joint venture appear have been signed asia culture travel shareholders mr. park came los angeles summer olympic games holders filing says were n't california time aug. northrop told mr. park had been deposited account hong kong controlled everything arbitration filing suggests seemed set is least october test flight f-20 crashed pilot was killed aircraft destroyed shortly thereafter f-20 crashed canada demonstration northrop eventually gave f-20 program out-of-pocket expenditures more mr. park died cancer meanwhile northrop own board began inquiring happened hotel seoul palace was be called was point filing alleges cover-up began first brief says northrop wanted formally cancel dong yang express earlier sofitel hotel transaction had been proposed idea filing alleges was be able transfer dong yang express termination fees donald foulds northrop executive even allegedly drafted settlement claim dong yang express mr. foulds attorney jan handzlik said client denies engaged improper activity respect korean hotel project including cover-up activities money investigators house subcommittee said was turn designed be handed back northrop help account more half missing remainder filing maintains be chalked expenses was available park bank account filing says plan had be killed blackmailers appear first allegedly was dong yang express middleman told james dorsey honolulu-based northrop marketing executive publish facts concerning northrop efforts sell f-20 korean government document says mr. dorsey lawyer daniel bookin declined comment welko gasich then top northrop executive allegedly handed dong yang express passed silence middleman document claims mr. gasich declined comment middleman n't be located early arbitration filing asserts mr. shin northrop consultant demanded remain silent mr. shin is being sued northrop federal court honolulu n't be reached was then northrop filed suit koreans house investigators claim was attempt make look northrop had been swindled company is asking international chamber commerce order asia culture travel associates return interest highest lawful rate