chicago mercantile exchange said plans institute additional circuit breaker aimed stemming market slides separately john phelan told closed house subcommittee meeting washington support securities exchange commission halts program trading market emergencies new york stock exchange chairman said does n't support reinstating collar program trading arguing firms get such limit chicago merc said new one-hour price limit take effect standard poor stock-index futures pit once s&p futures fell index points equivalent about 150-point drop dow jones industrial average 20-point limit is triggered p.m chicago time remain effect normal close trading p.m limit effect members be able execute trades limit price higher prices not exchange said decided new circuit breaker was needed following review tumultuous trading stocks stock-index futures friday oct. dow jones industrials plunged points stock-index futures prices skidded as well late afternoon s&p stock-index futures contract fell total index points hitting merc circuit breaker limit remained effect rest trading session merc said existing 30-minute 12-point limit s&p stock-index futures trading equal about points dow jones industrials was triggered oct. remain effect leo melamed merc executive committee chairman said 12-point limit appeared lessen selling panic oct. contract reopened subsequent flood sell orders quickly knocked contract 30-point limit indicated intermediate limit points was needed help keep stock stock-index futures prices synchronized several traders maintained merc 12-point circuit-breaker aggravated market slide oct. directing additional selling pressure floor new york stock exchange changes require regulatory approval is expected shortly exchange also said 30-point circuit breaker currently provides only one-hour respite market sell-offs become maximum one-day limit s&p stock-index futures contract one-day limit now is index points final modification was made five-point opening limit contract merc said five-point limit remain effect first minutes trading limit lapses current exchange rules contracts trade limit price opening minutes trading washington house aides said mr. phelan told congressmen collar banned program trades big board computer dow jones industrial average moved points did n't work well said firms get collar executing trades manually post-hearing news conference mr. phelan has publicly expressed concern market volatility said told house finance telecommunications subcommittee support program-trading halt proposal providing sec be comfortable language bill program-trading issue is heating capitol hill is wall street several legislators want grant sec power shut programs trading becomes too volatile sec chairman richard breeden has said be willing consider circuit breakers have preset trigger points does n't want discretionary power stop programs house aide suggested mr. phelan was so vague mushy was kind meeting people viewpoints come out feeling good point mr. phelan angered subcommittee chairman rep. edward markey d. mass. not going much already had been reported morning newspapers markey said have done public so little sensitive information was disclosed aide said mr. phelan then responded have been happy just writing report panel aide added point hearing rep. markey asked mr. phelan be discussed new york exchange board meeting today mr. phelan said big board is likely study program-trading issue response annoyed rep. markey house aides said congressman snapped back had been enough studies issue was time action matter subcommittee members attended hearing most notably rep. john dingell d. mich. full house energy commerce committee chairman has been willing let mr. markey carry legislation recent months mr. dingell expressed concern sources said jurisdictional problems regulating program trading uses futures offset stock trades futures industry is regulated commodity futures trading commission reports agriculture committees houses