surprise move british government cleared way bidding war jaguar plc agreeing remove obstacle takeover auto maker trade industry secretary nicholas ridley told house commons yesterday relinquish government so-called golden share company as long jaguar shareholders agree golden share restricts individual holding % expires end was jaguar best interests company future be assured present climate uncertainty resolved as quickly possible mr. ridley said mr. ridley decision fires starting pistol perhaps costly contest world auto giants britain leading luxury-car maker general motors corp. ford motor co. have been trying amass % stakes jaguar ford already has unwelcome % holding is prepared bid entire company had lobbied government lift takeover restrictions early gm has been negotiating friendly transaction jaguar likely involve joint ventures eventual stake just % government action caught jaguar management flat-footed scuttle gm minority deal forcing fight jaguar n't believe gm let ford have free run said stephen reitman european auto industry analyst ubs-phillips drew am sure be going full bid many investors certainly believe bidding war is imminent jaguar shares skyrocketed yesterday mr. ridley announcement following temporary suspension london stock exchange late trading shares were up whopping pence % gain record pence very heavy volume shares u.s. over-the-counter market jaguar shares trading american depositary receipts closed up analysts expect ford make first move perhaps today initial offer pence share such proposal values jaguar more speculation takeover fight has sent jaguar shares soaring past weeks share price was languishing pence ford sept. announcement interest minority stake ford is driving seat moment observed bob barber auto analyst brokers james capel co aggressive ford bid jaguar put pressure gm make better offer british company white knight such countermove end jaguar hopes remaining independent british-owned is n't clear long gm be willing fight ford jaguar longstanding rivalry gm just wants make sure ford pays huge packet jaguar said john lawson auto analyst london nomura research institute people close gm-jaguar talks agreed ford now be able shut general motors 's going be shootout only be player town person said person close talks said is very hard justify paying silly price jaguar out-and-out bidding war were start now statement jaguar board said were not consulted ridley decision advance were surprised action taken statement emphasized holders representing % shares voting special shareholders meeting agree lift takeover restrictions jaguar officials u.s. noted ford jaguar largest shareholder now has power call such meeting u.s. auto analysts also noted ford is best position benefit large number jaguar shares have moved past month hands arbitragers waiting highest takeover bid jaguar own defenses hostile bid are weakened analysts add fewer % shares are owned employees management ford officials u.s. declined comment british government action plans call special jaguar shareholders meeting gm officials said too were surprised move left consider options explore matters further gm has u.s. approval buy % jaguar stock has n't yet disclosed many shares now owns prepared statement gm suggested plans jaguar be more valuable long run initial windfalls investors reap hostile ford bid intensive discussions jaguar invitation gm said have as objectives create cooperative business relationship jaguar provide continued independence great british car company ensure secure future employees provide attractive long-term return shareholders jaguar was shocked mr. ridley decision management had believed government n't lift golden share consulting company first indeed government is taking calculated risk mr. ridley announcement set howl protests members opposition labor party accused thatcher administration backing down promised protection privatized company british government retained single golden share selling stake jaguar conservative government decision reflect desire shed politically sensitive issue well next election expected late 's now very good time politically get over done observed daniel jones professor motor industry management university cardiff wales government already buffeted high interest rates slowing economy has been badly hurt last week shake-up mrs. thatcher cabinet same time government did n't want appear favor gm allowing minority stake preclude full bid ford mr. ridley hinted motive answering questions members parliament announcement said was giving golden share clear way playing field is level contestants bradley a. stertz detroit contributed article