house aviation subcommittee approved bill give transportation secretary authority review approve leveraged buy-outs major u.s. airlines collapsed plan acquire ual corp. parent united airlines spurred quick action legislation introduced wednesday approved subcommittee voice vote yesterday bill is expected be taken public works transportation committee tomorrow floor vote next week be urged measure drew criticism bush administration parting shot financier donald trump yesterday withdrew takeover bid amr corp. parent american airlines letter subcommittee chairman james oberstar d. minn. mr. trump criticized bill explicit effort thwart bid amr said contributed collapse deal elaine chao deputy transportation secretary also sent letter express administration opposition bill present form rep. oberstar brushed mr. trump allegations excuse own deal failing also said fact other letter had n't come transportation secretary samuel skinner indicated is wiggle room administration position mr. oberstar other committee members repeatedly stressed legislation was n't response particular market situation cited ual amr examples reasons move quickly enact legislation aides house senate said withdrawal trump bid amr is n't likely deflate efforts push legislation 's still fast track still want do said senate aide bill is aimed addressing concern airline sacrifice costly safety measures pay debt incurred leveraged buy-out currently transportation secretary does n't have clearly established authority block mergers take drastic step revoking operating certificate carrier official considers unfit supporters legislation view bill effort add stability certainty airline-acquisition process preserve safety fitness industry general bill give transportation department 30-day review period % more voting stock major u.s. air carrier be acquired also require acquiring party notify transportation secretary provide information relevant determining intent acquisition bill allow secretary reject buy-out sufficient information has n't been provided buy-out is likely weaken carrier financially result substantial reduction size airline disposal assets give control foreign interest more information is needed secretary have authority extend review period days witnesses congressmen industry experts expressed support bill order prevent profiteers cashing airline profits expense safe cost-effective service several committee members disapproved backing mr. trump claim threat regulation caused failure ual deal stock-market plunge major concerns expressed dissenters was large airlines be prohibited divesting smaller entities producing independent spin-off companies