wall street journal reporters called companies headquarters facilities bay area bid assess damage operations caused tuesday earthquake calls reached many certainly not publicly held companies operations area most cases damage company facilities operations was minimal adia services inc. menlo park temporary personnel agency annual sales otc said offices bay area were working various states disarray business was slow many companies were closed yesterday advanced micro devices inc. sunnyvale integrated circuit maker annual sales nyse had only minor structural damage most workers were work yesterday production slowdown was anticipated as long electricity remains available amdahl corp. sunnyvale computer maker annual sales amex was closed yesterday damage estimates were available american building maintenance industries inc. san francisco provider maintenance services annual revenue nyse had damage headquarters lost phone service operations were moved branch office are running smoothly thanks decentralized computer system company had developed quake american president cos. oakland shipping concern annual sales nyse had little damage cranes dock rail track container-ship facility collapsed route 880 overpass company expects work ship due today minimal delays sporadic power anacomp inc. indianapolis nyse said xidex corp. unit sunnyvale maker computer disks microfilm annual sales had only minor damage is fully operational anthem electronics inc. san jose distributor electronic parts annual sales about nyse sustained very little damage anticipated being % operating condition midday apple computer co. cupertino computer maker annual sales otc sustained structural damage offices were closed yesterday applied materials inc. santa clara maker computer-chip machine systems annual sales otc had slight damage headquarters damage manufacturing plants company workers area is fully functional atari corp. sunnyvale maker personal computers software annual sales amex had minor damage expects be fully operational tomorrow bankamerica corp. san francisco bank holding company annual revenue nyse yesterday had power headquarters northern california branches were closed automatic teller machines were closed area securities trading was conducted backup facility concord bechtel corp. san francisco engineering construction concern annual sales had only minor structural damage buildings city computers were knocked backup computer tapes were hand-carried ibm office philadelphia company expects mainframe be up few days workers senior management were asked not report work yesterday bio-rad laboratories inc. hercules biological research clinical-products leader annual sales amex said richmond warehouse north san francisco was closed debris fallen shelves expects be fully operational next week borland international scotts valley personal computer software designer annual sales had heavy damage headquarters was conducting business parking lot company does n't expect shipping delays businessland inc. san jose computer retail company annual sales nyse said corporate office stores area were open exception retail center san francisco business district facility reopen today carter hawley hale stores inc. los angeles retailer annual sales nyse said emporium stores area were closed water damage broken windows fallen displays spokesman said sales are expected be hurt losses are covered insurance chevron corp. san francisco oil company annual sales nyse had minor damage downtown headquarters structural damage closed buildings san ramone industrial park company expects be fully operational next week clorox co. oakland consumer products annual sales nyse was closed yesterday plans reopen today tomorrow meanwhile orders are being routed kingsford products unit louisville ky. computer problems mean be processed manually expects be fully operational early next week coherent inc. palo alto laser maker annual sales was closed yesterday expects reopen today consolidated freightways inc. menlo park trucking company annual sales nyse had structural damage cf motor freight subsidiary office palo alto damage menlo park cooper companies inc. palo alto medical products maker annual sales nyse had little damage was full operation yesterday dayton hudson corp. minneapolis retailer annual sales nyse closed bay-area target discount stores mervyn department stores because pending reviews structural engineers requests authorities were trying keep shoppers freeways company expects reopen target stores mervyn today tomorrow diasonics inc. south san francisco maker magnetic resonance imaging equipment annual sales amex had minor damage mostly stockroom company plans be fully operational today digital equipment corp. maynard mass. computer maker annual sales nyse had structural damage san francisco sales office appreciable damage elsewhere area including cupertino plant dreyer's grand ice cream inc. oakland ice cream maker annual sales otc said is delivering ice cream roads are passable everex systems inc. fremont maker personal computers peripherals annual sales otc had minor damage was almost fully operational yesterday exxon corp. new york oil company nyse said refinery northeast san francisco was operating slightly reduced rate precaution case aftershocks ford motor co. dearborn mich. auto maker annual sales nyse said ford aerospace unit facilities bay area including satellite-assembly operation palo alto had major damage gap inc. san bruno clothing retailer annual sales nyse expects most stores return full operation bay-area workers be back work today genentech inc. south san francisco biotechnology company annual sales nyse sustained major damage expects be fully operational today general electric co. fairfield conn. consumer industrial products broadcasting concern annual sales nyse said ge nuclear energy unit bay-area employees had only minor damage san jose headquarters business was n't disrupted general motors corp. detroit auto maker annual sales nyse sustained about injuries workers ruptured water mains new united motor manufacturing inc. facility fremont joint venture toyota motor corp was limited production models yesterday was n't clear normal 750-car-a-day pace resume plant officials are still assessing damage parts suppliers port oakland facilities handle shipments plant golden west financial corp. oakland savings loan annual revenue nyse had only minor damage few branches injured employees hewlett-packard co. palo alto personal computer electronic equipment maker annual sales nyse said be minimal suspension manufacturing undefined period computer system was operating orders be taken company has employees more buildings bay area building palo alto be damaged repair others had lesser damage were injuries workers damage be easily millions company said hexcel corp. dublin manufacturer engineered parts annual sales nyse had little damage phone trouble homestake mining co. san francisco gold general miner annual sales nyse said headquarters was closed yesterday power failures lack water reopen today expects impact business be slight homestead financial corp. millbrae financial services concern annual revenue otc said bay-area branches were closed yesterday company expects branches reopen today inmac corp. santa clara maker computer accessories annual sales otc said telephones were out headquarters service be restored today company said was doing brisk business computer power-surge protectors cables uninterruptable power sources intel corp. santa clara semiconductor maker annual sales otc had damage few people were work yesterday international business machines corp armonk n.y. maker business machines nyse said flooding caused broken water pipes closed san jose plant makes high-end data-storage devices plant employees gradually resume operations next several days company said also closed yesterday were company santa teresa software-development lab almaden research center concern national service division opened center emergency service walnut creek part disaster-recovery plan kaiser aluminum chemical oakland metal chemical maker annual sales had slight structural damage 28-story headquarters building employees stayed home yesterday allow crews clean lockheed corp. calabasas aerospace defense concern annual sales nyse said lockheed missiles space division closed santa cruz test facility power outages landslides closing affecting employees continue least roads are cleared was n't known extent facility was damaged also was n't known impact be division work includes navy trident submarine-based missile program air force strategic defense initiative division had only minor damage sunnyvale headquarters plant palo altos delays deliveries are expected longs drug stores inc. walnut creek drugstore chain annual sales nyse had only minor damage only bay-area stores santa cruz area were closed are expected reopen soon lsi logic corp. milpitas maker customized integrated circuits annual sales nyse has halted manufacturing plants area are inspected structural damage company expects resume full operations today r.h. macy co. new york retailer annual sales said was minor damage macy stores i. magnin stores bay area measurex corp. cupertino maker computer integrated manufacturing processes annual sales nyse had only minor damage workers spent most yesterday cleaning national semiconductor corp. santa clara semiconductor maker annual sales nyse said had major structural damage bay-area buildings workers were injured production resumed yesterday piping waste-treatment plant needed immediate repairs nordstrom inc. seattle retailer annual sales otc 59-store chain stores bay area were closed yesterday damage appears primarily cosmetic hopes reopen stores today fifth saturday oracle systems corp. belmont provider computer programming software services annual sales offices buildings belmont san mateo areas were closed % computer telephone systems are operating expects be back full operation end week pacific gas electric co. san francisco electric gas water supplier annual sales minor damage headquarters undetermined damage nearby substations severe structural damage major power plant moss landing extensive damage gas lines electric lines residences electricity gas not reconnect electricity is certain are gas leaks predictions happen pacific telesis group san francisco telecommunications holding company annual sales damage headquarters power power failure has caused delay release company earnings report major concern is subsidiaries pacific bell pacific telesis cellular sustained damage buildings structural damage several cellular sites santa cruz volume calls cellular phones times usual causing big slowdown procter gamble co. cincinnati-based company folgers coffee plant south san francisco was closed following earthquake injuries major damage other plants country make lost production quantum corp. milpitas manufactures rigid disc drives small business computers word processors annual sales otc open business minor structural damage raychem corp. menlo park plastics manufacturer annual sales major damage production slowdown is anticipated ross stores inc. newark discount apparel chain annual sales stores bay area closed open as early today safeway stores inc. oakland retail food chain annual sales structural damage headquarters power major problems transporting products stores remained open numbers many stores closed charles schwab co. san francisco discount brokerage firm annual sales had only minor damage headquarters building was up running yesterday market open firm will not however resume 24-hour service power city is restored office closed yesterday p.m. edt seagate technology scotts valley maker hard disk drives computers annual sales otc closed assess appeared be minor damage buildings southern pacific transportation co. san francisco railroad annual sales had only minor damage headquarters tracks expects be fully operational tomorrow st. louis southwestern railway co. unit halted service tuesday night has restored freight lines limited commuter service san francisco san jose sun microsystems inc. mountain view maker desktop computers annual sales otc injured employees very little damage buildings closed yesterday due power difficulties tandem computers inc. cupertino computer maker annual sales nyse said had significant damage be fully operational week many employees stayed home yesterday customer service was being maintained transamerica corp. san francisco financial services insurance company annual sales nyse said headquarters well-known downtown pyramid-shaped building was intact closed yesterday varian associates inc. palo alto instrumentation semiconductor equipment company annual sales had only minor damage slowdowns were anticipated vlsi technology inc. san jose maker semiconductor products annual sales otc minimal damage facilities injuries expected operations return normal late yesterday watkins-johnson co. defense-oriented electronics manufacturer annual sales nyse minor damage headquarters plant palo alto damage san jose plant still assessing damage scotts valley plant main product is furnaces semiconductor production wells fargo co. san francisco bank holding company annual revenue nyse minor damage headquarters branches northern california sustained structural damage preclude opening near future locations least automatic teller machine inoperable central computer systems are operating injuries wyse technology inc. san jose maker video display terminals workstations compatible computers annual sales slight structural damage headquarters injuries expects be back full operation today 3com corp. santa clara maker computer communications systems annual sales otc slight structural damage headquarters communications systems already fully operational