mutual-fund czar john m. templeton has put money moniker is pouring own funds templeton value fund mr. templeton owns shares several funds firm manages only available u.s. investors according filings securities exchange commission are templeton global income templeton emerging markets now value fund did add value fund list 's very bullish emerging growth stocks make fund portfolio mr. templeton said bahamas hideaway emerging growth stocks have n't been popular america years 've been neglected said prices often trail market whole mr. templeton 147,300-share purchase closed-end fund came u.s. stock market plunge last friday still proved slightly profitable mr. templeton bought shares several separate purchases aug. sept. according reports sec bought share prices ranging fund closed yesterday new york stock exchange composite trading up cents addition mr. templeton received dividend cents share oct. river run senior vice president vice president james river corp. sold majority shares richmond va. paper-products concern late august early september reports filed sec show executives got share stock showed good timing big board trading yesterday james river shares closed down cents sept. robert joseph sherry firm senior vice president employee public relations sold shares leaving shares james river including sale stock last february mr. sherry has sold % stake company year according sec filings mr. sherry declined comment asked sales james a. toney vice president sold shares aug. still has shares according sec files mr. toney also declined comment interest-rate player cincinnati gas electric co. tops companies portion accompanying insider trading table week utility directors have least doubled holdings company july largest purchase was dudley taft bought shares mr. taft is also president taft broadcasting co. said bought shares keeps utility account brokerage firm salomon brothers inc. had recommended stock good buy salomon brothers confirmed has had buy recommendation stock about years cincinnati gas electric is good shape mr. taft said utilities are good investment interest rates are going down mr. taft paid average share stock closed yesterday big board down cents other directors bought shares respectively prices share share filings sec show n't be reached comment company spokesman said n't explain sudden bullishness do n't know news anything unusual happening here said bruce stoecklin director media services peter pae pittsburgh contributed article