government officials here other countries laid plans weekend head monday market meltdown went way keep moves quiet federal reserve chairman alan greenspan was telephones making clear officials u.s. abroad fed was prepared inject massive amounts money banking system did october action were needed prevent financial crisis treasury secretary nicholas brady talked friends associates wall street assistant secretary david mullins carefully analyzed data friday market plunge officials feared public announcements only increase market jitters addition officials fed bush administration decided avoiding overt actions statements weekend give more strength flexibility friday market drop turn morning rout disadvantage point is anything do looks are doing too much tends reinforce sense crisis said government official insisting anonymity fed efforts secrecy were partly foiled sunday morning new york times washington post carried stories quoting senior fed official saying central bank was prepared pour cash banking system monday morning fed chairman greenspan was surprised stories according knowledgeable sources insisted had n't authorized public comment nevertheless fed officials acknowledged stories were reasonably accurate portrayals central bank game plan is prepared assume same role played october providing money markets necessary keep financial system afloat fed provides money banking system buying government securities financial institutions reticence federal officials was evident appearance sunday budget director richard darman abc week secretary treasury brady chairman greenspan chairman sec others have been close contact 'm sure do 's right 's prudent 's sensible said was suggested comment was non-answer mr. darman replied is non-answer context 's smart thing do treasury secretary brady issued statement minimizing stock market drop today stock market decline does n't signal fundamental change condition economy said economy remains well-balanced outlook is continued moderate growth administration officials conceded friday drop carried chance further declines week possibility is is surgical setback reasonably limited breadth not major problem said senior administration official also asked not be named other is see major disaster years think 's less likely nevertheless fed chairman greenspan vice chairman manuel johnson were offices sunday evening monitoring events unfolded markets world action was expected begin opening new zealand foreign exchange markets p.m. est stocks there plunged continue trading day began later evening tokyo early morning europe treasury fed planned keep market rooms operating night monitor developments tokyo share prices dropped sharply % early monday morning trading initial slide market appeared be turning early afternoon was headed lower bush administration lead is being taken treasury secretary brady undersecretary robert glauber assistant secretary mullins men worked together so-called brady commission headed mr. brady was established crash examine market collapse result have extensive knowledge financial markets financial market crises mr. brady was white house friday afternoon stock market decline began was quickly phone mr. mullins turn was talking chairmen new york chicago exchanges later mr. brady phoned mr. greenspan sec chairman richard breeden numerous contacts new york overseas aides say continued work phones weekend administration officials say president bush was briefed friday afternoon evening even leaving camp david had frequent telephone consultations mr. brady michael boskin chairman counsel economic advisers government officials tried weekend render business-as-usual appearance order avoid sense panic treasury undersecretary david mulford instance was meeting business council hot springs va. stock market fell remained there following day last night fed chairman greenspan had n't canceled plans address american bankers association convention washington a.m. morning ironically mr. greenspan was scheduled address same convention dallas oct. flew dallas oct. market plummeted points then turned next morning returned washington delivering speech see related story abreast market special steps did n't cool fever sell wsj oct.