federal appeals court san francisco ruled shareholders n't hold corporate officials liable false sales projections new products news media concurrently revealed substantial information product flaws ruling stems suit filed shareholders apple computer inc. claiming company officials misled investors expected success lisa computer introduced lawyers specializing shareholder suits said are concerned use press defense corporations become popular result ruling according suit apple officials created public excitement touting lisa office computer revolutionize workplace be extremely successful first year plaintiffs also alleged prior fanfare company circulated internal memos indicating problems lisa suit claimed apple stock climbed high share basis company optimistic forecasts company revealed lisa poor sales late stock plummeted low share according suit shareholders claimed more losses san francisco district court dismissed case largely newspaper reports had sufficiently counterbalanced company statements alerting consumers lisa problems late last month appeals court agreed most case be dismissed however gave shareholders right pursue small portion claim pertains lisa disk drive known twiggy court ruled news media did n't reveal twiggy problems time lawyers are worried ruling implication other shareholder suits pointed court stressed ruling be regarded very specific apple case court was careful say adverse information appeared very same articles received same attention company statements said patrick grannon los angeles lawyer firm greenfield chimicles was n't involved case court is saying adverse facts have be transferred market equal intensity credibility statements corporate insiders shareholders attorneys new york firm milberg weiss bershad specthrie lerach last week petitioned rehearing case wrote opinion establishes new rule immunity wide variety opinions company business are publicly reported company say anything fear securities liability nfl ordered pay legal fees defunct national football league is considering appealing ruling stemming u.s. football league largely unsuccessful antitrust suit nfl jury agreed usfl claims nfl monopolized major league football jury awarded usfl only damages trebled antitrust claims last week u.s. court appeals new york upheld award attorneys fees defunct league harvey d. myerson myerson kuhn then finley kumble wagner heine underberg manley myerson casey was lead trial lawyer new firm pursued application appeal douglas r. pappas myerson kuhn says award goes directly usfl reimburse fees already paid myerson kuhn get costs pressing application federal appeals court held nominal damages failure prove claims did n't exclude usfl being reimbursed antitrust laws provide injured parties be reimbursed lawyers fees shepard goldfein attorney nfl says client consider asking hearing appealing u.s. supreme court mr. goldfein skadden arps slate meagher flom new york says ruling is wrong fee award is excessive usfl lost major claims including contention nfl restrained trade television contracts usfl was not prevailing party mr. goldfein insists houston-calgary alliance fulbright jaworski houston fenerty robertson fraser hatch calgary alberta are affiliating help serve energy-industry clients affiliation is believed be first such cross-border arrangement major law firms firms are n't required refer work exclusively other remain separate organizations work together energy environmental fair-trade-related issues conduct seminars topics mutual interest said gibson gayle jr. 585-lawyer fulbright jaworski addition fulbright jaworski washington d.c. office play key role firms work together regulatory issues particularly natural-gas exports clients arrangement reached months negotiations grew 80-lawyer fenerty robertson desire develop ties u.s. firm light relaxed trade barriers u.s. canada said francis m. saville fenerty robertson signal turnaround asbestos manufacturers w.r. grace co. won trial pittsburgh be required remove asbestos fireproofing local high school mount lebanon high school pittsburgh sought compensatory damages grace arguing asbestos cause respiratory diseases lung cancer posed risk students grace successfully contended removing fire retardant pose greater health risk leaving alone spokesman company said verdict is thought be first favor asbestos manufacturer plaintiff was school asbestos question was used fireproofing fcc counsel joins firm diane s. killory join 500-lawyer morrison foerster partner washington d.c. office mid-november help develop mass-media practice san francisco-based firm communications group ms. killory years old resigned federal communications commission general counsel early month nearly years post was first woman be appointed fcc general counsel richard p. magurno formerly eastern airlines top lawyer joined new york law firm lord day lord barrett smith partner mr. magurno spent years miami airline unit houston-based texas air corp. was named general counsel left company mr. magurno said split time 200-lawyer firm offices washington d.c. new york specialties aviation labor law