savings loans reject blacks mortgage loans twice as often reject whites office thrift supervision said does n't necessarily mean thrifts are discriminating blacks agency said office arm treasury said does n't have data financial position applicants thus n't determine blacks are rejected more often nevertheless capitol hill information was released yesterday senate banking subcommittee hearing lawmakers said are worried financial institutions are routinely discriminating minorities asked regulators suggest new ways force banks thrifts comply anti-discrimination laws sen. alan dixon d ill. chairman subcommittee consumer regulatory affairs said 'm not statistician blacks are getting loan applications rejected twice as often whites cities is times as often conclude discrimination is part problem james grohl spokesman u.s. league savings institutions said data is red flag lacking financial data n't make case discrimination is widespread trade group official added certainly federal government take hard look sen. dixon held hearing follow provision savings loan bailout bill required regulators report evidence discimination mortgage lending legislation also requires broad new disclosures race sex income level borrowers information n't be gathered new studies several months least federal reserve said studies recent years adjust income differences other variables showed blacks received fewer home mortgages banks thrifts whites john laware fed governor told subcommittee evidence is mixed fed believes vast majority banks are n't discriminating instance noted fed studies have shown blacks receive more home improvement loans whites several lawmakers were angered bank thrift regulators generally said have been too busy handling record number bank thrift failures past few years put much energy investigating possible discrimination be first admit have not devoted necessary amount emphasis past several years developing examinations discrimination said jonathan fiechter top official office thrift supervision 've got folks are being turned mortgage market improperly unfairly said sen. donald riegle d. mich. chairman banking committee then is matter needs remedy now not months now years now years now officials federal deposit insurance corp. office comptroller currency said have punished only few banks violations anti-discrimination laws fdic said has issued citations banks past years discriminatory practices comptroller office said found indications illegal discrimination examinations banks april comptroller office also said complaints received january only alleged racial discrimination real estate lending agency investigated complaints violations were cited thrift regulators did n't give figures enforcement actions mr. fiechter said possibilities being considered regulators fight discrimination is use testers government investigators pose home buyers department housing urban development has used testers investigate discrimination rental housing using testers be controversial financial institutions mr. grohl said u.s. league savings institutions had n't yet taken position matter