insiders have been selling shares dun bradstreet corp. huge credit-information concern top executives new york-based company sold shares august september insiders sold more holdings stock new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday closed up cents well share insiders received shares much recent slide dun bradstreet stock came late last week negative comments analysts merrill lynch co. goldman sachs co company spokesman declined comment said officials sold shares n't comment dun bradstreet chief businesses is compiling reports rate credit-worthiness millions american companies also owns moody investors service assigns credit-ratings bonds preferred stock a.c. nielsen known data television-viewing patterns yellow-pages publisher donnelley last march newspaper reported widespread allegations company misled many customers purchasing more credit-data services needed june company agreed settle several lawsuits related sales practices admitting denying charges investigation u.s. postal inspectors is continuing insider sales charles raikes firm general counsel sold shares august representing % holdings company received shares according insider filings securities exchange commission john c. holt executive vice president dun bradstreet director sold shares aug. filings show retains shares william h.j. buchanan firm secretary associate general counsel sold shares separate sales september shares represented % dun bradstreet holdings according company other insiders all senior executive vice presidents sold shares representing % % holdings according sec filings dun bradstreet stock price began recent spiral downward last wednesday company reported third-quarter results net income rose cents share cents share year-earlier period analysts focused more drop revenue reflecting part continuing drop sales controversial credit-reporting services last thursday merrill lynch securities analyst peter falco downgraded investment rating firm according dow jones professional investors report citing slowdown credit-reporting business cut rating short-term hold above-average performer reduced earnings estimate mr. falco continues rank stock longterm buy stock slid more times average daily volume stock received blow friday goldman sachs analyst eric philo advised investors short-term horizons avoid dun bradstreet stock is unlikely outperform market stock fell cents insider selling is not unusual dun bradstreet fact recent pace selling is just about average company according figures compiled north miami fla. firm specializes tracking analyzing sec insider filings previous sales have often been sales shares purchased exercise stock options sold months later as soon allowed said robert gabele president most recent sales do n't appear be option-related said tasty profits michael a. miles chief executive officer philip morris cos kraft general foods unit bought shares company sept. purchase raised holdings shares stock split four-for-one oct. mr. miles 's newly purchased shares are now worth based philip morris closing price up cents composite trading new york stock exchange yesterday spokesman mr. miles said bought shares felt were good investment executive made purchases shortly being named current chief executive officer position formerly was kraft general foods chief operating officer shedding glitter directors pegasus gold inc. spokane wash. precious-metals mining firm sold most holdings company aug. john j. crabb sold shares leaving stake shares received peter kutney sold shares holdings share gary straub corporate counsel company said directors sold personal financial reasons insiders declined comment wall street merrill lynch co. analyst daniel a. roling rates stock neutral drexel burnham lambert inc. lists buy pegasus gold has been lot recommended lists junior growth company stepping big leagues says marty mcneill metals analyst dominick dominick new york investment firm 's good company growing 's nothing warrant be sold yesterday composite trading american stock exchange pegasus closed up cents