startling turnabout members senate intelligence committee are complaining someone executive branch is leaking david boren intelligence committee chairman is upset someone leaked letter committee reagan administration suggesting u.s. undertake warn panamanian thug manuel noriega got wind impending coup result assassination due respect highly classified correspondence other buzzwords leakers are performing public service cia has become protection service mr. noriega american people know went wrong panama is fitting subject public congressional inquiry naturally senator boren committee like free rein blame executive branch stamping top secret own complicity 's danger exposing sources methods disclosing debate running pennsylvania avenue congress is going assume authority micromanage foreign policy 's going have take responsibility too president united states urged panamanian armed forces move mr. noriega did commanders did n't have initiative do more block couple roads executive branch bears first responsibility timidity kind initiative expect given climate set congress example exactly did cia tell major giroldi fellow coup plotters u.s. laws executive orders assassinations part did u.s. warnings play major unwillingness pull trigger had general noriega custody was attack pro-noriega troops mr. noriega did n't suffer hesitation had pistol maybe need cia version miranda warning have right conceal coup intentions rat maybe surgeon general warning confiding united states be fatal cia chief william webster hardly washington malcontent got debate started last week noting executive order banning assassinations had contributed u.s. paralysis coup cia deputy director operations richard stoltz tried smooth things few days later instead simply underlined mr. webster point interpretation executive order mr. stoltz said way various committees have time interpreted has led view proper caution part operators including other words congress n't let cia do much anything anymore 's fine cia pay 's same duty lighter course doing anything be second-guessed congress carries heavy penalties witness walsh prosecution ollie north intelligence committee ranking republican senator william cohen joined senator george mitchell write best seller iran-contra deploring men zeal doubt many people cia pentagon national security council have read kind initiative anyone expect people line 've read know happen fail wants end protagonist bill cohen morality play order assassinations is artifact same congressional mind-set product 1970s vietnam syndrome executive action president bush do country favor rescinding order ambiguous intrusion ability defend america national security are course good reasons u.s. n't get assassination business rescinding executive order is not same thing saying u.s. start passing exploding cigars world being nasty place is want presidents have freedom order operations someone get killed such situations not write rules advance only make sure president takes responsibility executive order reported agreements intelligence committee are sensible moral now stands u.s. bomb tripoli n't assassinate colonel gadhafi send fighter squadron strafe terrorist hideouts bekaa valley n't shoot abu nidal assassination order quality debate washington are telling world only way u.s. kill madman is making sure take innocent civilians