dollar posted gains major currencies yesterday buoyed persistent japanese demand u.s. bond issues market sentiment remains cautiously bearish dollar based sluggish u.s. economic indicators dealers note japanese demand has helped underpin dollar yen has kept u.s. currency plunging key levels mark same time dealers said u.s. unit has been locked relatively narrow range recent weeks part hefty japanese demand dollars has been offset mark strength resulting stalemate jay goldinger capital insight inc. reasons mark has posted significant gains yen as well the mark climbed yen yen late tuesday new york the strength u.s. bond market compared foreign counterparts has helped lure investors dollar-denominated bonds rather mark bonds dollar-yen trade is driving force market said tom trettien vice president banque paribas new york 'm not convinced continue knows happen road months foreign investment starts erode late new york trading yesterday dollar was quoted marks up marks late tuesday yen up yen late tuesday sterling was quoted down late tuesday tokyo thursday u.s. currency opened trading yen up wednesday tokyo close yen douglas madison corporate trader bank america los angeles traced dollar recent solid performance yen purchases securities japanese insurance companies trust banks sense wave investment is waiting wings contends perception japan vitriolic u.s. response sony corp. announcement purchase columbia pictures entertainment inc. has been temporarily mollified cites recent deal mitsubishi estate co. rockefeller group as well possible white knight role undisclosed japanese company georgia-pacific corp. takeover bid great northern nekoosa corp. evidence forthcoming maturity november japanese government yen-denominated bond issue valued about has prompted speculation market investors redeeming bonds diversify dollar-denominated instruments according mr. madison remains unclear bond issue be rolled meanwhile traders tokyo say prospect lower u.s. interest rates has spurred dollar buying japanese institutions point institutions want lock returns high-yield u.s. treasury debt suggest demand u.s. unit continue unabated rates u.s. recede market again showed little interest further evidence slowing u.s. economy traders note market recent weeks has taken cues more wall street u.s. economic indicators dealers said dollar merely drifted lower following release wednesday u.s. purchasing managers report managers index measures health manufacturing sector stood % october september % also average forecasts index % dealers said dollar was pressured slightly number market participants had boosted expectations past day were looking index indicates expanding manufacturing economy most said index had no more minimal effect trade commodity exchange new york gold current delivery settled ounce cents estimated volume was moderate ounces early trading hong kong thursday gold was quoted ounce