federal judge ruled imelda marcos was n't brought u.s. will marital privileges protect spouses incriminating other do n't apply case result judge john f. keenan new york ordered mrs. marcos turn over court pleadings documents have filed foreign countries opposition u.s. requests evidence mrs. marcos had claimed did n't have turn documents was brought here involuntarily because providing materials violate marital privilege year half mrs. marcos late husband ferdinand marcos ousted president philippines fled philippines hawaii were charged racketeering conspiracy obstruction justice mail fraud scheme allegedly embezzled more homeland much money was fraudulently concealed purchases prime manhattan real estate federal prosecutors have charged mrs. marcos trial is expected begin march u.s. law requires criminal defendants turn foreign documents such sought marcos case law is meant overcome delays caused defendants use foreign procedures block u.s. requests records judge keenan said opinion instance documents involve foreign business dealings bank accounts u.s. has charged marcoses alleged crimes involved bank accounts philippines hong kong u.s. other countries allegation kidnapping judge keenan wrote suggestion mrs. marcos was brought country will is unsupported affidavit affirmation judge also said marital testimonial privileges cited mrs. marcos do n't apply first one permits witness refuse testify spouse judge keenan said privilege purpose is fostering harmony marriage mr. marcos died sept. privilege no longer apply judge said second marital privilege cited mrs. marcos protects confidential communications spouses judge keenan said privilege is meant protect private utterances not litigation papers filed foreign governments mrs. marcos attorneys maintained judge keenan threw most mrs. marcos objections agreed concerns turning foreign documents violate defendant constitutional right self-incrimination result said examine marcos documents sought prosecutors determine turning filings is self-incrimination judge keenan also directed prosecutors show mrs. marcos fifth amendment right self-incrimination n't be violated mrs. marcos attorney new york sandor frankel declined comment ruling mrs. marcos has n't admitted filed documents such sought government charles labella assistant u.s. attorney prosecuting marcos case did n't return phone calls seeking comment u.s british law firms announce rare joint venture tokyo sidley austin leading chicago-based law firm ashurst morris crisp midsized london firm solicitors are scheduled today announce plans open joint office tokyo firms be registered japanese law foreign legal consultants practice japanese clients be limited advising matters foreign law office also be able advise foreign multinational clients international law general matters office provide one-stop shopping japanese financial institutions other clients seeking advice access world capital markets according a. bruce schimberg sidley senior banking specialist move tokyo chicago open office next year sidley-ashurst venture also be staffed sidley partner specializing corporate law partner ashurst concentrating acquisitions japanese attorney office tap resources sidley lawyers u.s. london singapore as well ashurst staff members london brussels ashurst is new far east sidley maintain association hashidate law office tokyo united auto workers said seek rehearing u.s. appellate court ruling union claim state michigan engages wage-discrimination female employees three-judge panel court cincinnati made ruling saturday uaw is seeking hearing full 14-judge panel union sued state november alleging intentionally segregated job classifications sex paid employees predominantly female jobs less males comparable jobs uaw also charged state applied own standards determining pay discriminatory manner november district court judge detroit ruled uaw union is bargaining representative more michigan state employees new jersey merger largest law firms central new jersey has been created merger norris mclaughlin marcus 41-lawyer firm manger kalison mcbride webb health-care specialty law firm lawyers norris mclaughlin is general-practice firm has expanded recently such specialties banking labor environmental work merged firm carry norris mclaughlin name drug wars texas legislator proposes color-coding drivers licenses drug offenders bill authorize courts order licenses condition probation state senator j.e. buster brown republican is running texas attorney general introduced bill said altered license be embarrassment teenagers young adults act deterrant drug use richard avena executive director texas civil liberties union called proposal political gimmickry said fails recognize drug problem health issue