gen-probe inc. biotechnology concern said signed definitive agreement be acquired chugai pharmaceutical co. tokyo about almost double market price gen-probe stock move is sure heighten concerns increased japanese investment u.s. biotechnology firms is also likely bolster fears japanese use foothold u.s. biotechnology concerns gain certain trade competitive advantages gen-probe industry leader field genetic probes is new technology used diagnostic tests last year signed agreement chugai exclusively market diagnostic products japan infectious diseases cancer chugai agreed then fund certain associated research development costs arrangement apparently has worked well thomas a. bologna president chief executive officer gen-probe founded said sale company means be able concentrate running business rather always looking sources financing chugai agreed pay share gen-probe common shares outstanding fully diluted basis yesterday national trading over-the-counter market gen-probe common closed share u.s. leads most areas biotechnology largely research investment u.s. government sale is sure increase concerns japanese companies buy american know-how use obtain upper hand biotechnology trade competition biotechnology firms be setting own competitors said richard godown president industrial biotechnology association added now japanese have only acquired equity positions u.s. biotechnology companies are piggybacking developed technology said past years japanese concerns have invested several u.s. independent biotechnology companies chugai has been most active japanese players u.s. biotechnology companies has equity investment genetics institute inc. cambridge mass. joint-venture agreement upjohn co. kalamazoo mich japanese government mr. godown said has stated wants % % gross national product come biotechnology products is becoming more horse race day u.s. japan said adding fear semiconductor electronics automobile industries japanese companies use u.s.-developed technology gain trade advantages mr. bologna said sale allow gen-probe speed development new technology more quickly apply existing technology array diagnostic products company wants offer only genetic probe-based tests diagnostic infectious diseases humans had been approved marketing food drug administration had been developed sold gen-probe osamu nagayama deputy president chugai spends about % sales research development was unable pinpoint much money chugai pump gen-probe think gen-probe has technology important people health said adding think is important have such technology mr. bologna emphasized companies gain technological knowledge sale gen-probe expand significantly result acquisition chugai had net income revenue genprobe had net loss revenue recently gen-probe received broad u.s. patent technology helps detect identify quantify non-viral organisms targeting form genetic material called ribosomal rna other things mr. bologna said sale facilitate gen-probe marketing diagnostic test acquired immune deficiency syndrome aids chugai also help gen-probe regulatory marketing expertise asia mr. bologna said tender offer gen-probe shares is expected begin next monday company said