secretary state baker read decided kill speech robert gates deputy national security adviser career soviet expert was going give student colloquium national collegiate security conference keep wondering mr. gates wanted say perhaps have cited mr. gorbachev need stable currency free competitive markets private property real prices other pie-in-the-sky reforms perhaps have called decentralized political economic system dominant communist party political arrangements alleviate grievances demands soviet ethnic minorities republics bob gates even have said are soviet problems susceptible rescue abroad abundant western credits mr. gates had been allowed say things now be hearing discord disarray foreign policy dark hints be raised parts administration hope mr. gorbachev fail just were vice president quayle voiced similar sentiments 's somehow ok secretary baker however say same things fact did quotes above are mr. baker speech weeks ago so far see is disagreement mr. baker mr. quayle mr. gates 've read matter president bush understand point nothing u.s. do make much difference mr. gorbachev succeeds perhaps mr. gates emphasize more mr. baker many hurdles soviet leader leap is going succeed everyone agrees mr. gorbachev problems result failure own system be relieved only changing system not pouring western money gatt membership not matter donbas coal miners short soap start treaty make difference ukrainian nationalists other hand so long mr. gorbachev is easing grip empire everyone 've heard agrees u.s. benefit engaging deal be made cut world ortegas loose moscow not do n't expect much good nuclear-arms control conventional-arms talks demilitarize eastern europe 's nothing least contradictory be nice think washington tolerate reasonably sophisticated complex view yet much political culture seems intent castigating bush administration not helping mr. gorbachev time bush official raises doubt mr. gorbachev washington community shouts cold war timidity administration spokesman is quickly trotted out reply mr. bush wants succeed mr. baker seems especially sensitive washington ailment known beltway-itis symptoms include cold sweat sound debate clammy hands face congressional criticism fainting spells someone writes word controversy unidentified official clearly late stages disease told times baker just felt were lines speech be misinterpreted seized press short problem is not intra-administration disagreement preoccupation prospect perestrokia fail political opponents ask lost gorbachev mr. baker want avoid criticism senate majority leader george mitchell secretary state audience is entire free world not just congress case 's likely find more muzzles colleagues more leaks pop washington lesson once learned henry kissinger letting officials express own nuances be educational note rome yesterday defense secretary cheney said european euphoria mr. gorbachev is starting be tempered recognition magnitude problems was trying deal is western interest see mr. gorbachev succeed odds are no doubt tell ultimate outcome depends does not do even press is ready seize misinterpret are not very complicated thoughts surely is someone administration maybe bob gates explain college students even schoolchildren