japan daiwa securities co. named masahiro dozen president mr. dozen succeeds sadakane doi become vice chairman yoshitoki chino retains title chairman daiwa japan second-largest securities firm japanese firms president usually is charge day-to-day operations chairman role is more ceremonial one title chief executive officer is n't used people daiwa particularly internationalists expected mr. dozen eventually become daiwa president speed promotion surprised many was only earlier year jovial easygoing executive likes joke americans name is synonymous was appointed deputy president mr. dozen is taking reins securities company does very well domestic market is still seeking realize potential global investment banking securities dealing daiwa is world largest securities firms march daiwa group had shareholder equity yen months ended sept. daiwa reported unconsolidated parent company net income yen revenue yen figures were record highs several observers interpreted mr. dozen appointment attempt daiwa make international operations more profitable preparing firm effects continuing deregulation japan domestic markets mean increased competition japan so-called big securities firms nomura securities co. ltd. world largest nikko securities co. ltd. yamaichi securities co. ltd. daiwa have suffered setbacks attempts break foreign markets have moved fore underwriting fixed-income securities eurobond market mostly japanese firms have been only marginally profitable u.s american institutional investors have never had large appetite japanese equities japanese have stepped purchases u.s. shares past several months have shown past be fickle investors same time daiwa brethren have faced stiff competition well-entrenched american competitors have prevented building strong links u.s. corporations institutional investors mr. dozen knows problems firsthand arrived u.s. start eight-year tour tried selling japanese yen-denominated bonds u.s. investors made desperate efforts using yellow pages beginning end said koji yoneyama president daiwa u.s. unit not single piece paper was sold own account mr. dozen did n't do much better u.s. bonds interview few months ago recalled training salomon brothers inc. successfully bid opportunity sell portions u.s. corporate bond issues n't sell japanese stock salesmen selling american bonds maybe 's crazy said mr. dozen even related indignity suffered colleagues went overnight fishing expedition new jersey shore caught nothing returning new york exhausted got taxicab woman driver said americans make better fishermen recalled undaunted mr. dozen said daiwa goal is build high-technology oriented international organization maybe japanese flavor said was particularly interested firm gaining expertise futures options mortgaged-backed securities computerized trading investment systems as well mergers acquisitions mr. dozen said daiwa strengths were large capital base influential position tokyo market links japanese corporations institutional investors mr. dozen joined daiwa graduation kyoto university many young recruits japanese securities firms began career peddling stock individual investors climb top mr. dozen also headed company stock-exchange division fixed-income units international operations was constantly picking new things fill experience is very well-balanced said takuro isoda chairman daiwa u.s. unit new york mr. dozen experience salesman enabled gain political support particularly retail sales force accede presidency commission income domestic stock bond sales accounts form large portion japanese securities companies earnings anybody lacked backing retail sales force be fragile said daiwa executive mr. dozen has weakness be golf game digs sand instead hitting ball farmer said mr. yoneyama