general motors corp. wants buy as much % jaguar plc marking first salvo possible full-scale battle ford motor co. control british car maker gm sought u.s. antitrust clearance last week purchase more worth jaguar shares does n't own yet according gm officials here company detroit headquarters no. u.s. auto maker then wrote jaguar intends go % level wins u.s. clearance go jaguar spokesman said yesterday gm move follows tuesday declaration ford holds unwelcome % stake jaguar is prepared bid entire company gm is close completing friendly deal jaguar is likely involve eventual % stake joint manufacturing ventures speculative investors betting imminent clash ford gm pushed jaguar share price pence u.s. cents near-record pence late trading london stock exchange yesterday tuesday shares have gained nearly % all-out bidding war world top auto giants britain leading luxury-car maker seems unlikely not go certain level said david n. mccammon ford vice president finance news conference yesterday dearborn mich 's price stop bidding n't specify was powerful political pressures convince conservative government keep so-called golden share limits individual holding % restriction expires dec. really do n't see government doing something jaguar does n't want next months said kenneth warren conservative member parliament chairman select committee trade industry britain house commons golden share is single share is magic share government retained single share selling stake jaguar part nationalistic practice protecting former government-owned enterprises deflect criticism privatization % restriction covers would-be suitor british foreign ford is willing bid % jaguar shares government jaguar shareholders agree relax anti-takeover barrier prematurely jaguar biggest holder britain biggest car maker ford turn heat convening special shareholders meeting urging holders drop limits early ford succeed many shareholders are speculators keen full bid institutional investors unhappy jaguar management handling current financial difficulties government probably n't give in readily hostile foray ford however has relinquished golden share only once before british petroleum co. takeover britoil plc wooing british lawmakers gm has pointed out willingness settle minority stake keep jaguar british-owned independent week u.s. auto giant paid house commons members house lords members fly detroit tour operations there visit was unrelated jaguar gm chairman roger smith answered legislators questions lunch tuesday said jaguar n't be smothered anyone else recalled participant politics also influences government thinking anti-takeover restriction conservatives do n't dare jeopardize marginal tory seats coventry jaguar has headquarters government easily back down promised protection privatized company proceeds controversial plans privatize most britain water electricity industries prime minister margaret thatcher however be receptive request jaguar chairman sir john egan restriction early removal let gm amass more % mount friendly suitor bid ford end sir john rather government jaguar shareholders hold key unlocks golden share