new york bankruptcy judge has temporarily stopped resolution trust corp. placing insolvent thrift institution government control deltacorp holding company owns thrift contends federal law empowering rtc place failing savings loan associations government control conflicts federal bankruptcy law chapter deltacorp has bankruptcy petition pending new york company is scheduled appear federal bankruptcy judge tina l. brozman thursday ask impose 60-day preliminary injunction office thrift supervision enforcement arm rtc deltacorp hopes days be able sell thrift says lawyer david m. friedman partner gordon hurwitz butowsky weitzen shalov wein new york deltacorp prevails similarly situated companies be able use chapter thwart president bush program restructure trouble s&l industry chapter company operates protection creditors lawsuits works plan pay debts passed early year financial institutions reform recovery enforcement act authorizes rtc declare troubled thrift institutions insolvent place receivership rtc then close thrift institution sell whole parts established months ago rtc has taken thrifts valued rtc was verge placing colonial savings bank roselle n.j. subsidiary deltacorp receivership week deltacorp persuaded judge brozman issue temporary restraining order arguing thrift was taken apparent conflict federal laws be resolved according mr. friedman rtc pending takeover impair company ability chapter recoup loses putting subsidiary bid mr. friedman claims deltacorp estimates selling thrift make about government sells thrift company make far less contends court were issue injunction set significant precedent says mr. friedman says does n't know many other companies are position use bankruptcy law shelter rtc takeovers jerome kowalski partner parker chapin flattau klimpl has clients situations similar deltacorp says lawyers be foolish not tell clients follow deltacorp strategy office thrift supervision failed return numerous phone calls reagan took more months average nominate federal judges 's conclusion study daniel meador law professor university virginia mr. meador former assistant attorney general criticizes calls inordinate delays filling federal judgeships suggests creation permanent office judicial nominations justice department federal judges washington d.c. other areas complained recently long-standing vacancies have contributed mounting backlogs cases federal judgeships are vacant nationwide mr. meador study appears fall issue university virginia journal law politics writes is not rare more years pass administration sends nomination senate study covers years attorney general dick thornburgh committee senior justice department officials evaluate potential judicial nominees send recommendations white house congressional democrats have accused mr. thornburgh delaying nomination process spokesman attorney general said senate judiciary committee contributed problem failing act nominations made final months reagan administration u.s. district judge upholds new york son sam law state law designed prevent lawbreakers profitting such things books movies crimes survived first federal challenge ruling judge john f. keenan federal court new york simon schuster inc. sued have law declared unconstitutional claiming restricts publishers freedom speech company filed suit son sam law was applied wiseguy life mafia family best-seller nicholas pileggi book was based life henry hill court refers career criminal received payments publisher return life story simon schuster said many books criminal activities never be published criminals n't be paid stories had chilling effect publishing industry judge keenan said be more difficult publishers authors create books cooperation criminal source son sam law is not impossible is such cooperation proscribed judge added speech is not target state law profit-making aspect is target spokeswoman simon schuster said new york company appeal ruling baker mckenzie moscow bound chicago law firm world largest open first soviet-accredited office foreign law firm moscow later year coudert brothers new york law firm arnold porter heron burchette ruckert rothwell washington d.c. have had lawyers soviet union auspices companies trade offices unofficial capacities 1,400-lawyer baker mckenzie open full-fledged branch firm have offices countries became first foreign firm eastern european branch opened budapest years ago lawyers headed partner paul j. melling be moscow full-time lawyers firm other offices work joint ventures have already signed clients according robert w. cox chairman firm illinois judge joins firm years state judiciary william r. quinlan years old has joined chicago law firm phelan pope john partner specialize complex commercial environmental litigation 75-lawyer firm oct. resignation letter illinois gov. james r. thompson mr. quinlan said no longer sit bench fulfill financial responsibilities family said education costs living expenses spiralled judicial salaries illinois have n't increased years mr. quinlan was appointed illinois appellate court served circuit court judge cook county ill. corporation counsel city chicago judiciary is called decide most important issues facing society 're not spending money staff best people get keeping best people there says mr. quinlan disney sues amvest copyright infringement noting happy hampster is n't creations walt disney co. filed suit federal court amvest video corp. rahway n.j disney alleges amvest violated copyrights least times least video cassettes full-length disney movies such bambi fantasia suit also alleges amvest created character called happy hampster is trying pass disney character addition damages copyright infringement disney is seeking unspecified punitive damages spokeswoman amvest had comment said company had n't yet seen suit