president bush soviet leader mikhail gorbachev hold informal meeting early december move give leaders political boost home white house is purposely not calling meeting summit n't be expectation detailed negotiations agreements rather senior administration officials said unexpected meeting was scheduled mr. bush request preference conducting diplomacy highly personal informal meetings other leaders leaders meet dec. alternating days meetings u.s. soviet naval vessel mediterranean sea unusual seaborne meeting n't disrupt plans formal summit meeting next spring summer arms-control treaty is likely be completed announcing meeting yesterday mr. bush told reporters white house mr. gorbachev expects substantial decisions agreements instead said purpose is simply get better acquainted discuss wide range issues formal agenda informal nature session calculated effort hold expectations meeting pay significant political dividends leaders mr. gorbachev badly needs diversion serious economic problems ethnic unrest faces home american officials have said meeting leader u.s. help bolster stature soviet politicians academics support needs part mr. bush has been criticized regularly home moving too slowly cautiously reacting mr. gorbachev reforms historic moves away communism eastern europe face-to-face meeting mr. gorbachev damp such criticism hardly eliminate senate majority leader george mitchell d. maine has been most prominent democratic critic mr. bush handling soviet relationship praised president arranging meeting added mere fact meeting does n't deal substance policy mr. bush said december meeting was announced simultaneously moscow be held unusual setting ships sea hold fanfare force sides limit participation just small groups advisers doing manner have say more time press social activities mandatory joint appearances things nature public consumption mr. bush said soviet foreign minister eduard shevardnadze news conference moscow said sides plan hold full-scale summit late spring-early summer year found useful say even necessary hold interim informal meeting specific agreements are expected mr. shevardnadze said does n't mean be agenda leaders cover subjects have been featured lower level u.s.-soviet meetings talks include human rights soviet reforms regional disputes relations allies economic cooperation arms control joint efforts fight narcotics terrorism pollution president specifically mentioned u.s. economic advice moscow possible topic mr. gorbachev has months been publicly urging u.s. drop restrictions soviet trade recently told small group american businessmen moscow hoped sign general trade agreement u.s. possibly summit soviets hope trade agreement give most-favored nation status lower tariffs soviet exports u.s unusually candid article latest economic woe unemployment pravda yesterday reported soviets have lost jobs result number grow year economists moscow are now proposing state start system unemployment benefits bush administration official knowledgeable summit plan cautioned assuming be bold new initiatives soviet economy other issues do n't take big opening major movement economic cooperation arms control environment said things come up fairly informal way instead official said is vintage george bush was george bush own idea george bush wanting meet foreign leader talk directly aside soviet economic plight talks cutting strategic chemical arms other issue soviets are likely want raise is naval force reductions western analysts say given meeting setting sea gorbachev is unlikely pass opportunity press once again negotiated cuts navies north atlantic treaty organization warsaw pact theme has been recurring one soviet military officials much year argue kremlin follows through announced plans cut land forces soviets area greatest strength u.s. show more willingness cut sea forces washington area greatest superiority reasons bush administration aides are anxious insist coming meeting be informal is avoid comparisons last such loosely structured superpower gathering former president reagan meeting mr. gorbachev reykjavik iceland meeting sent shivers western alliance mr. reagan was pulled discussing possible elimination nuclear weapons consulting american allies mr. bush said initiated talks soviets informal meeting sending proposal mr. gorbachev last july soviet leader readily accepted word possible session was closely held president handful top aides word did n't reach many second-level officials past few days indeed many senior officials had been insisting weeks mr. bush was n't interested such informal get-together president bush political critics home have been urging open more direct dialogue mr. gorbachev actually was arguments leaders soviet bloc led president seek december meeting mr. bush decided wanted meeting talking europe july leaders poland hungary urged support mr. gorbachev efforts transform soviet system urge loosen grip eastern europe senior aide said flying home discussions mr. bush drafted letter mr. gorbachev suggesting informal get-together precede formal summit year peter gumbel moscow contributed article