heating oil futures prices fell sharply market players moved reduce exposure vagaries weather balmy autumn days be blissful average joe not speculators new york mercantile exchange bought heating oil aggressively september october betting early harsh winter october draws close weather is still generally warm europe u.s. especially northeast much heating oil is consumed new york mercantile exchange trading yesterday many had been counting dips mercury started liquidating heating oil selling pushed november heating oil futures contracts cents gallon lower cents most sizable moves direction past several trading sessions petroleum futures prices had been caught tug-of-war pulled direction continuing strong demand opposite direction continuing high output organization petroleum exporting countries yesterday drop heating oil pushed crude significantly lower as well west texas intermediate u.s. benchmark crude fell cents barrel close barrel december delivery traders have said december wti well continue downward as low barrel even reports persian gulf incident former war foes iran iraq failed shake crude doldrums shipping industry sources said iranian gunboats attacked iraqi tugboat iraq offshore oil terminal northern part gulf details remained sketchy sources said iraq reportedly did n't consider attack be hostile act neither did petroleum markets seem pay much attention reports alaskan officials had refused let unocal oil tanker dock refinery did n't have oil-spill contingency plan approved state broker said markets have been more bullish had tanker been refused access valdez terminal port alaskan pipeline site last spring biggest oil spill u.s. waters only gasoline managed escape slide dominated other petroleum futures trading unleaded gasoline november delivery ended yesterday session cent gallon higher cents other commodity markets yesterday grains soybeans prices wheat futures contracts dipped reports beneficial rain winter wheat growing regions argentina forecasts widespread rain weekend u.s. winter wheat states such kansas oklahoma said victor lespinasse floor broker dean witter reynolds chicago u.s. winter wheat is planted fall harvested early summer prices corn futures contracts rose slightly precious metals futures prices jumped life bestirred highly volatile stock market resignation key figure conservative government british prime minister margaret thatcher december gold climbed critical 375-an-ounce level settle up december silver added cents close ounce january platinum tacked ounce settle market analysts said continued declines volatility stock market contributed generally enhanced investor interest precious metals british political news was main factor boosting prices chancellor exchequer nigel lawson resigned sir alan walters mrs. thatcher economic adviser also announced resign metals markets closed london news was announced lot u.k. buying came u.s. said peter cardillo commodities trading adviser josephthal co. new york mr. cardillo noted drop british pound following mr. lawson resignation fueled metals rally investors sought safe haven said believes rally metals is going be very short-lived william o'neill research director elders futures inc. said december gold close consecutive days regard bullish sign however expected strong rallies be met producer selling soviet union south africa sell rallies said countries are major producers precious metals also noted uncertainty continues stock market create investor interest precious metals interest has been lacking long time said copper futures prices fell december contract dropped cents settle pound mr. o'neill said copper price action week indicates general weakness easily violated major support then yesterday closed secondary support said believes next area technical support is level mr. o'neill said market was hit wednesday news atmosphere surrounding negotiations strike bougainville papua new guinea have improved said doubts settlement is anywhere sight also believes market have already discounted good news be associated strike mr. cardillo said copper is reflecting weakening u.s. economy be buyer seller levels cocoa futures prices dropped again extending declining trend december contract settled metric ton off contract low point yesterday was life-of-contract low 14-year low price cocoa decline was apparently sparked rumors ivory coast major african producer sold tons london wednesday mr. o'neill said market is so fragile weak n't absorb selling bert ruiz soft commodity specialist balfour maclaine futures inc. said week has seen increasing open interest declining prices almost certain sign additional selling contracts is taking place open interest is number outstanding contracts remain be settled opposite trade delivery think trade interests are hedging physical cocoa new sales said also pointed volume wednesday was contracts cocoa is extremely heavy mr. ruiz said producers cocoa have choice sell stocks need hard currencies believes major cocoa buyers are well aware sad state market are taking advantage weakening prices doing scale-down buying is mostly buy just enough cocoa satisfy current needs common strategy falling market