polaroid corp. patent-infringement damages case eastman kodak co. highest stakes corporate trials ever is getting scant attention wall street days mind-numbing testimony federal court boston trial is being ignored analysts patent attorneys most have read pre-trial documents however estimate kodak be ordered pay infringing polaroid patents be largest patent award ever is well polaroid seeks highest patent damage award date was smith international inc. was ordered pay baker hughes inc. infringing patent oil drilling bit seal companies later agreed settle few analysts think is worth time slog polaroid trial testimony 's panning gold outside grand central station find something chances are low said michael ellman analyst wertheim schroder co eugene glazer analyst dean witter reynolds inc. said hired attorney be there time give prediction eventual award be willing bet be lot 75-day trial early 1980s determined kodak based rochester n.y. infringed patents polaroid cambridge mass main issues remaining are calculate damages infringement was willful deliberate so damages be tripled analysts have read transcripts david nelson shearson lehman hutton inc. calvert d. crary litigation analyst labe simpson co. think judge a. david mazzone decide kodak favor willful deliberate issue mr. crary said testimony kodak patent counsel francis t. carr kenyon kenyon showed worked kodak continuously outset project effort avoid infringement carr told kodak many occasions avoid various features polaroid patent positions kodak followed advice instance mr. crary said irving kayton patent expert george mason university school law is familiar case said fact patents were infringed suggests infringement was willful 's difficult be consistently wrong observers also wonder judge mazzone use lost-profits method determining damages polaroid favors result larger award reasonable royalty method polaroid claims have manufactured sold instant cameras film sold kodak kodak had n't entered market moreover polaroid contends have sold higher price thus made higher profits n't have been forced match kodak lower prices side has called harvard business school professor testify issue kodak hired robert buzzell polaroid brought robert j. dolan 's nothing says people harvard business school have agree other said mr. buzzell testimony is expected continue early december decision is n't expected time year