analyses currencies do do losing gaining value goods other are favorite pursuit economists also are often opaque non-economists eyes glaze monetarists talk base money velocity purchasing power parity anyone wondering subject importance however ask nigel lawson resigned last week margaret thatcher chancellor exchequer political turmoil generated britain drift stagflation britain inflation probably is traceable part mr. lawson failure get pound-deutsche mark exchange rate right money importance is central genteel debate now way u.s. monetarist camps something called world dollar base wdb economic model fashioned concept is predicting u.s. recession late year early next year prediction is correct only months left time soon tell debate least is useful reminder u.s. dollar is not just national international currency u.s. monetary policy goes astray have repercussions well unseated estimable mr. lawson wdb model question is product upstart economics shop called bell mueller cannon inc bmc goldman sachs challenged bmc recession forecast economic newsletter few weeks ago bmc folks were delighted even critical was just kind attention were seeking fired goldman sachs objections own economics letter bmc report also arranged luncheon new york further explain forecast solicit new clients bmc folks are n't really amateurs intellectual dueling president jeffrey bell upset longtime new jersey republican senator clifford case primary made unsuccessful run bill bradley u.s. senate seat john mueller bmc vice president chief economist spent years staff rep. jack kemp sharpening political skills providing analysis back congressman supply-side arguments so even bmc is only months old principals have been part national economic debate years is world dollar base article pages mr. mueller june touched debate goldman sachs defined wdb as not only currency commercial bank reserves created federal reserve also sum dollar reserves held foreign central banks world dollar base fact is analogous world stock monetary gold classical gold standard wrote mr. mueller bmc says was able predict rise inflation u.s. early year observing rapid growth world dollar base recession stagflation forecast is based calculation growing % annual rate wdb has come standstill goldman sachs snapped wdb is not accurate predictive tool dollar reserves central banks do not dictate much money there is world bundesbank be rather surprised be told dollar purchases sales were only instrument monetary policy observed goldman sachs instead supply money foreign countries be is expanded contracted open-market operations just is case united states foreign central banks buy sell government securities add drain reserves banking system bmc replied monetary system is final asset forms credit are ultimately payable today final asset is u.s. dollar track record bmc is able achieve debate is welcome focuses u.s. dollar world primary instrument trade investment nations dominant foreign currency held central banks past years so dollar has followed erratic course periods weakness relative other currencies correlate rises prices u.s mercantilists argue weak currency is good thing makes nation products more competitive cherished notion have influenced mr. lawson peg pound too low causing britain import europe inflationary pressures weak currency creates bargains foreign buyers sometimes pushing demand nation productive capacity forcing prices upward criticisms u.s. treasury agreeing participate international effort drive dollar last month are based danger u.s. dollar world role also has exported inflation times other central banks become concerned falling dollar try support buying dollars own currencies inflate supply own currencies u.s. monetary policies ultimately determine other nations are willing accept american economic hegemony challenges hegemony are probably good thing america international responsibilities is less free engage beggar-thy-neighbor tactics protectionism attempts manipulate currency relationships own advantage u.s. congress administration need frequent reminders responsibility also need reminders shoulder burden well u.s. exercise enormous power behalf sound world economy benefits best test well responsibility is being exercised be found simply much dollar holds value relative goods services practical world currency relationships n't be ignored either else bmc model accomplishes furthers discussion achieve world monetary order given damaging effects monetary disorders past is something much be desired just ask nigel lawson