surprise resignation yesterday british chancellor exchequer nigel lawson sent sterling tailspin dollar creating uncertainties direction british economy u.s. unit also firmed other currencies back sterling tumble market participants switched pounds pound also dropped precipitously mark falling key 2.90-mark level marks marks late wednesday mr. lawson resignation shocked many analysts recent recurring speculation rift chancellor prime minister margaret thatcher indeed only hours earlier mrs. thatcher had called mr. lawson economic policies sound said has always supported was general feeling seen worst said patrick foley deputy chief economic adviser lloyds bank london resignation came great surprise graham beale manager foreign-exchange operations hong kong shanghai banking corp. new york added mrs. thatcher comments reinforced market growing confidence sterling compounded unit later decline market was caught totally wrong way everyone was extremely long sterling mr. beale said late new york trading yesterday dollar was quoted marks up marks late wednesday yen up yen late wednesday sterling was quoted sharply down late wednesday tokyo friday u.s. currency opened trading yen up thursday tokyo close yen few analysts had much good say pound near-term prospects fact most do n't anticipate shift mrs. thatcher economic policies mr. foley lloyds noted mr. lawson replacement john major british foreign minister take time establish credibility meantime sterling trend downward volatile trade mr. foley predicted few economic policy changes ahead commenting mr. major shares very similar view world mr. lawson bob chandross chief economist lloyds bank new york also noted pound sharp decline is pegged more uncertainty market vision altered united kingdom economic policies mr. lawson resignation leads change british interest-rate policy mrs. thatcher administration firmly supports high interest rates keep inflation check posturing full inclusion european monetary system exchange-rate mechanism mr. lawson withdrawal have little long-term impact exchange rates mr. chandross concluded also announcing resignation thursday was alan walters mrs. thatcher economic adviser mr. lawson nemesis pound had been trading new york prior mr. lawson announcement sank more cents prompting federal reserve bank buy pounds dollars fed move however only proved stopgap pound slide fed intervened second time according new york traders meanwhile dollar trading was relatively uninspired session according dealers noted thursday release preliminary report u.s. third-quarter gross national product was something nonevent u.s. gnp rose annual rate % third quarter implicit price deflator measure inflation was down % annual rate increase quarter % rate gain second quarter europe dollar ended lower dull trading market closed prior mr. lawson announcement commodity exchange new york gold current delivery rose ounce heavy trading close was highest august estimated volume was ounces early trading hong kong friday gold was quoted ounce