worry grows big japanese investments u.s. japan big trading companies are rapidly increasing stake america smaller business japan controversial trend improves access american markets technology small american companies also provides growing source capital even marketing help take deal candela laser corp. wayland mass. manufacturer high-tech medical devices years ago set sights japan export market partly help clear myriad obstacles facing overseas company trying penetrate japan tiny candela turned mitsui co. japan largest trading companies investment joint-venture deal mitsui guided candela tokyo bureaucratic maze eventually secured ministry health import approval candela laser products breaks kidney stones treats skin lesions last count candela had sold medical devices japan deal also gave mitsui access high-tech medical product view growth area went systematic approach says richard olsen candela vice president indeed many japanese trading companies favorite u.s. small business is research development be milked future japanese use japanese companies bankroll many small u.s. companies promising products ideas frequently putting money projects commercial banks n't touch japanese companies have financed small medium-sized u.s. firms years recent months pace has taken first half alone japanese corporations invested minority positions u.s. companies % rise figure reports venture economics inc needham mass. concern tracks investments new businesses addition course japanese investments involved outright purchase small u.s. firms heightened japanese interest american small business parallels acceleration investments giving japanese companies control large highly visible u.s. corporations such columbia pictures entertainment inc only week was announced mitsubishi estate co. had acquired % stake rockefeller group owns new york prestigious rockefeller center small deals are far less conspicuous add japanese penetration u.s. market deals also improve japanese access american technology market knowledge feed american anxieties area too even low-tech product plate glass catch trading company fancy 's strategic fit free state glass industries warrenton va. small fabricator architectural glass was foundering original management last year mitsubishi international corp. new york-based arm mitsubishi corp. bought controlling interest glass company joint venture ronald bodner glass industry executive mitsubishi consultant deal is chiefly designed give mitsubishi window u.s. glass industry says ichiro wakui executive mitsubishi general merchandise department new york 's not just simple investment small company mr. wakui says want see glass market inside not outside mitsubishi investment free state is very small less mr. wakui says mr. bodner declines comment arrangement trading companies such mitsubishi mitsui c. itoh co. nissho-iwai corp. make many japanese investments small u.s. concerns have u.s. counterpart vertically integrated combines got start japan feudal period deal globally commodities construction manufacturing operate ships banks sogo-shosha are looking new business says arthur klauser adviser president mitsui u.s.a. using japanese term largest global trading houses adds takeshi kondo senior vice president c. itoh america inc. have great interest making investments particularly new ventures host electronics firms california silicon valley were financed trading-company venture capital profit least short term is usually secondary goal strategic objectives not financial return drive many deals says venture economics spokesman investing basis future transactions role often performed merchant banks trading companies cut logjam small-company owners often face local commercial banks 's classic problem small businessman says malcolm davies managing director trading alliance corp. new york people are queuing door take product does n't have working capital make thing commercial banks are very unsympathetic want assets want balance sheet has relation business company generate adds mitsui mr. klauser corporations country trading companies are n't so much interested high return investment are increasing trade flows extent do 're quite content get return investment % % mr. klauser says mitsui has u.s. subsidiaries holds % interest more trading company hopes double number u.s. affiliates sales subsidiaries fiscal year ending last march were more % % return ai n't hay mr. klauser says