slowing sales profitable jeep cherokee wagoneer sport utility vehicles are forcing chrysler corp. temporarily idle toledo ohio assembly plant first time april hourly workers be laid week beginning oct. overtime has been eliminated plant fourth quarter chrysler spokesman said 's significant change earlier year plant worked substantial overtime only have sales fall short company bullish expectations sales cherokee best-selling jeep lower-volume wagoneer were actually % end last month 's less chrysler officials had hoped set ambitious production schedules toledo plant earlier year even became clear spring demand was n't coming expectations chrysler officials resisted cutting output cherokee wagoneer are very profitable vehicles spokesman said instead chrysler officials late may slapped cash rebates vehicles including first such incentives popular four-door cherokee chrysler bought jeep incentives boosted sales while pace had cooled last month result chrysler dealers had bloated 82-day supply cherokee end last month 161-day supply comanche pickup toledo also builds 60-day 65-day supply is considered normal jasper jeep-eagle largest jeep dealerships country inventories have continued swell steve lowe general manager jasper ga. dealership said new rebates models have stimulated sales not enough significantly cut dealer stocks people are n't buying have close plants said separately chrysler said idle weeks st. louis assembly plant builds chrysler lebaron dodge daytona models chrysler officials said plant is scheduled resume production nov. hourly workers be affected general motors corp. meanwhile said idle yet week linden n.j. assembly plant bringing weeks total time plant be idled october gm said assembly plant builds chevrolet corsica beretta compact cars originally was scheduled reopen monday now not resume production oct. shutdown affects workers cut output cars sluggish sales beretta corsica spurred gm offer rebates cars corsica beretta make highest-volume car line chevrolet sales cars are % year fell steep % early month gm has scheduled overtime lordstown ohio janesville wis. assembly plants build chevrolet cavalier ford motor co. said shut week kentucky truck plant shortage dealer orders shutdown idle hourly employees eliminate production medium heavy duty trucks assembly plant is scheduled resume production oct. meanwhile major u.s. auto makers plan build cars week % year flat last week car output includes chevrolet prizm toyota corolla revised year-to-date figure includes volkswagen domestic-production july