small investors matched big institutional brethren anxiety weekend most seemed be taking philosophical approach said were resigned riding latest storm stock market 'm not losing faith market said boston lawyer christopher sullivan watched market plunge big screen front brokerage firm 's not so sure everyone else think monday small investors are going panic sell predicted mr. sullivan investments include amr corp. american airlines unit several mutual funds think institutions are going come buy 'm going hold sell now take big loss evinced optimism had been rewarded did n't flee market bet be up points monday said lucy crump 78-year-old retired housewife lexington ky mrs. crump said ashwood investment club portfolio lost about one-third value following black monday crash one got discouraged gained more annual congress national association investors corp. hyatt regency hotel minneapolis scene was calm some investors representing investor clubs u.s. were attending market started slide friday robert showalter official association said special bulletins emergency meetings investors clubs are planned fact association members long-term buy-and-hold investors welcomed drop prices hope take advantage said john snyder member los angeles investors club has stocks mind buy prices drop level wants not everyone is reacting so calmly however many wonder long-term implications is widely viewed cause friday slide reluctance banks provide financing buy-out ual corp. parent united airlines marc perkins tampa fla. investment banker said market drop is tremendous number signs leveraged take-out era is ending 's question 's general distaste leverage lenders mr. perkins believes however market be stabilized california investor marvin davis steps back united bidding offer share sara albert 34-year-old dallas law student says 's generally skittish stock market takeover activity seems fuel have feeling 's built sand says market rises 's foundation husband pulled most investments market crash still owns texaco stock partly concern economy partly recently quit job legal assistant go school think point want be lot more liquid others wonder many more shocks small investor stand assumed october was one-time shot said san francisco attorney david greenberg told little guy only happen once lifetime come back now 's happening again mr. greenberg got just crash regret never went back even market soared time 's ready buy panic wears still adds n't have kind thing happen very often little guy gets frightened big guys hurt badly merrill lynch n't survive little guy small investors have tiptoed back market following black monday mostly mutual funds discount brokerage customers have been market somewhat not whole hog were years ago says leslie quick jr. chairman quick reilly discount brokerage firm hugo quackenbush senior vice president charles scwhab corp. says schwab customers have been neutral cautious recently stocks individual investors are still angry program trading mr. quackenbush says avner arbel cornell university finance professor says government regulators have more closely control program trading win confidence small investor 's not only stock market has small investors worried alan helfman general sales manager chrysler dealership houston said mother have joint stock investments overall economy is chief worry high rollers took big bath today said showroom is few miles multi-million dollar homes houston richest citizens tell high roller is n't going come tomorrow buy chrysler tc maserati finally were gloaters got everything said pascal antori akron ohio plumbing contractor was visiting chicago stopped fidelity investments lasalle street office just stopped see much have lost mr. antori ever get back are kidding comes money once bitten times shy