hostile predator emerges saatchi saatchi co. co-founders charles maurice saatchi lead management buy-out attempt official close company said financing takeover attempt be problematic wake friday stock-market sell-off new york turmoil junk-bond market beleaguered british advertising consulting giant last week named new chief executive officer replace maurice saatchi has been subject intense takeover speculation weeks last week saatchi largest shareholder southeastern asset management said had been approached more third parties interested possible restructuring carl spielvogel chief executive officer saatchi big backer spielvogel bates advertising unit said had offered lead management buy-out company was rebuffed charles saatchi mr. spielvogel said n't launch hostile bid executive close saatchi saatchi said bidder came ludicrously high offer crazy offer saatchi knew n't beat have choice recommend shareholders otherwise undoubtedly come offer management executive said buy-out be led current board chairman is maurice saatchi strategic guiding force is believed be charles saatchi mr. spielvogel is n't part board are other heads saatchi big u.s.-based ad agencies executive did n't name price securities analysts have said saatchi fetch upward executive denied speculation saatchi was bringing new chief executive officer only clean company financially brothers lead buy-back speculation abounded friday industry executives analyzed appointment new chief executive robert louis-dreyfus joins saatchi becomes member board jan. mr. louis-dreyfus formerly chief executive pharmaceutical research firm ims international inc. has reputation savvy financial manager be charged largely repairing saatchi poor financial state asked speculation mr. louis-dreyfus has been hired pave way buy-out brothers executive replied is n't reason dreyfus has been brought was brought turn company separately several saatchi agency clients said believe company management shakeup have little affect has n't had impact do expect said spokeswoman miller brewing co. major client backer spielvogel john lampe director advertising painewebber inc. saatchi saatchi advertising client said have problem announcement do n't know change 's going bring are n't going change agencies change london executives backer spielvogel client avis inc. as well saatchi client philips lighting co. also said saw effect executives prudential-bache securities inc. backer spielvogel client is reviewing account declined comment mr. spielvogel had said prudential-bache was prepared finance management buy-out restructuring buy-out backer spielvogel alone led ad notes new account california glendale federal bank awarded account los angeles office omnicom group bbdo agency account was previously handled davis ball colombatto advertising inc. los angeles agency account review royal crown cola co. has ended relationship boston office hill holliday connors cosmopulos account had billed about according leading national advertisers not-guilty plea expected young rubicam inc. senior executives former employee pleaded not guilty federal court new haven conn. conspiracy racketeering charges government has charged bribed jamaican officials win jamaica tourist board ad account spokesman u.s. attorney office said extradition proceedings are just beginning other defendants case eric anthony abrahams former jamaican tourism minister jamaican businessman arnold foote jr korean agency samsung group bozell inc. agreed establish joint venture advertising agency south korea bozell cheil corp. new agency be called be based seoul is % owned samsung % owned bozell samsung already owns korea first advertising co. country largest agency bozell joins backer spielvogel bates ogilvy group u.s. agencies interests korean agencies