hopes simplifying corporate minimum tax are weakening method calculating % tax paid exceeds tax figured regular way is due change thanks tax act most experts agree concept is be introduced drags great complexity have been trying head year ways means chairman rostenkowski backed simplification plan pending house tax bill plan turns be big revenue loser now senate stripped-down bill omits proposal deal corporate tax proponents simplification fear chances getting final bill are waning hear has low priority house side says samuel starr coopers lybrand cpas law is n't changed says are left staring rules are almost impossible implement are so many complex depreciation calculations do congress still resolve issue other legislation year next starr adds hugo ravages be offset immediate claims tax refunds law aids hurricane-wracked locales named president disaster areas as well regions so designated other disasters lets victims elect deduct casualty losses amended returns offers larger tax benefit have april choose amending return claim refund brings cash faster personal losses are other factors consider notes publisher prentice hall loss insurance recoveries is deductible only extent exceeds year total losses exceed % adjusted gross income victims pick year income is lower deductions higher filing original not amended return couple consider damaged property is owned jointly separately spouse has larger income determine file jointly separately irs delays several deadlines hugo victims returns people six-month filing extensions were due monday irs says people disaster areas n't be penalized late filing returns are marked hugo postmarked jan. interest be imposed unpaid taxes late-payment penalties returns be waived balance due paid is % less liability irs notice describes other deadline relief hugo victims provisions fiscal-year taxpayers returns due last monday n't be penalized file request extension pay tax due nov. excise-tax returns due oct. nov. be delayed jan. extensions n't be granted filing employment-tax returns due oct. depositing withheld taxes late penalties be abated deposits made nov. notice also grants relief certain estate-tax returns one-day jaunts chartered boat were perks permanent staffers american business service corp. costa mesa calif. supplier temporary workers irs denied cost deductions few temps got go tax court said limitations were reasonable realistic allowed deductions used-car buyers try avoid sales tax understating prices paid private deals are targets new york drive estimating state lose year officials announced filing criminal actions hundreds civil penalties ira owner dies trustee individual retirement account file forms reporting market values relating decedent beneficiary copies executor beneficiaries irs revenue procedure describes reporting requirements bigger breadbox was cash hoarder reputation honesty people often cite frugality distrust banks justify cash caches irs gregory damonne brown fremont calif. hardworking reclusive young bachelor told story tax court judges usually find real aim is escape tax hidden income irs said brown have had such income uncovered source deposited bank account reporting income only brown story deposits came savings kept tupperware breadbox saved living family members pinching pennies secret gifts remorseful father had abandoned family brown had proof testimony mother stepmother father ex-employer honesty habits satisfied judge brown was truthful tale gifts was possible irs offered evidence hidden sources taxable income judge shields rejected claims briefs asked made charitable gifts reported two-year income thomas h. mcfall bryan texas told tax court had understated income court rejected incredible claims denied deductions imposed negligence penalty rep. schaefer r. colo. entered bill exempt tax rewards tips leading arrest violent criminals