shaken tumbling stock prices pessimistic projections u.s. economic growth currency analysts world have toned assessments dollar near-term performance most analysts polled last week dow jones international news service frankfurt tokyo london new york expect u.s. dollar ease only mildly november opinion is mixed three-month prospects half polled see currency trending lower next months others forecast modest rebound new year late afternoon new york trading yesterday dollar stood west german marks up marks late monday yen up yen late monday month ago similar survey predicted dollar be trading marks yen end october sterling was trading down late monday tokyo wednesday u.s. currency was trading about yen midmorning up yen opening up tuesday tokyo close yen average estimates economists polled puts dollar marks end november yen late january consensus calls dollar be trading marks yen bullish view see dollar trading up marks yen dollar bears see u.s. currency trading marks yen number polled predict dollar slip federal reserve eases interest rates david owen economist kleinwort benson co. london said expects further cuts short-term u.s. rates effort encourage narrowing trade gap ensure soft landing u.s. economy robert white vice president manager corporate trade first interstate california agreed view predicted u.s. federal funds rate drop % % days current level % fed funds is rate banks charge other overnight loans fed influences rate adding draining reserves banking system mr. white also predicted half-point cut u.s. discount rate near future discount rate currently % is rate fed charges member banks loans using government securities collateral expects cut problems several sectors economy particularly real estate automobiles bolstering argument commerce department reported yesterday new home sales september were down % august revised % fall drop marked largest monthly tumble % slide january last month survey number currency analysts predicted dollar be pressured narrowing interest rate differentials u.s. west germany indeed early october west german central bank raised discount lombard rates full percentage point several other european central banks notably britain followed west german bundesbank lead raising own key rates week later japan raised official discount rate half point % japanese discount rate is central bank base rate loans commercial banks surprisingly sharp widening u.s. august merchandise trade deficit revised july well expectations startling 190-point drop stock prices oct. federal reserve relaxed short-term interest rates knocking fed funds % % predictions central banks group seven g-7 major industrial nations continue massive dollar sales went astray market drove dollar downward own reacting wall street plunge subsequent price volatility lower u.s. interest rates signs slowing u.s. economy g-7 consists u.s. japan britain west germany canada france italy tomoshige kakita senior deputy manager treasury department mitsui bank ltd. tokyo suggested uncertainty u.s. stocks bonds has made japanese investors leery holding securities near term thus damping dollar demand mr. kakita added once u.s. equities regain stability players move back dollar-denominated investments especially treasury bonds value rises interest rates decline mr. kakita said key dollar-yen exchange rate is yen is broken panic be seen predicted explaining japanese institutions are comfortable dollar anywhere current levels yen jens-uwe fischer senior trader manufacturers hanover trust co. frankfurt said expects dollar recover next months marks u.s. economic data particularly u.s. trade figures level contended fed n't ease rates further predicted bundesbank officials relax key rates west germany alfred zapfel chief trader bank boston frankfurt took opposite stance said expects u.s. interest rates decline dragging dollar down marks end january short-lived dash marks end november west german interest rates said remain unchanged 'm not great dollar bears see more days mr. zapfel said n't really see dropping far marks scott greene chief foreign exchange dealer julius baer co. new york fits description great dollar bear predicted u.s. unit skid marks marks month marks beginning new year 're finally seeing culmination recessionary buildup last few months said noting continuing downward trend u.s. interest rates shaky stock market gloomier economic times ahead signal significantly lower dollar wake british chancellor exchequer nigel lawson surprise resignation sterling subsequent nose-dive most analysts had little good say pound near-term prospects mr. owen kleinwort benson suggested new chancellor john major take tough line autumn statement later month helping underpin pound warned currency remain risk commodity exchange new york gold current delivery dropped ounce moderate trading estimated volume was ounces early trading hong kong wednesday gold was quoted ounce christopher hill tokyo nicholas hastings london erik kirschbaum frankfurt caitlin randall douglas appell new york contributed article