debora foster takes necklace settles padded chair gently leans forward jazz-piano tape playing softly background soothing hands sabina vidunas begin work ms. foster neck shoulders 's oasis room ms. foster purrs room question is directors lounge h.j. heinz co. floors bustle pittsburgh there oil paintings marble tables massages are administered wednesday days 'm really busy says ms. foster works public relations company seems decadent take time massage such sessions never replace coffee breaks on-site massage is known trade is certainly infiltrating corporate america companies middle managers sneak massage therapists office fearful upper-level executives n't approve ms. foster indulgence is nothing oily hour-long rubfests enjoyed spa visitors does resemble executives think more intimate variety offered specialty parlors bad parts town contrary office rubdowns usually take place dimly lighted conference rooms stressed-out employees relax specially designed chairs fully clothed massages last minutes typically cost companies including heinz even pay part fee ms. vidunas has been seeing clients visit program was started heinz last year anthony j.f. o'reilly company chairman swears firm touch saying regular massages are balm old football injuries massage advocates say kneading head shoulders neck back go long way easing tension improving morale also insist touching is basic need as powerful need food sleep office is as good place do blood flows head feel lightheaded do n't feel tension head neck says minnie morey operations supervisor social security office grand rapids mich. massages began last month leave room massage people say look 're glowing adds candice ohlman 35-year-old masseuse plies trade grand rapids office fall love hands not everyone however is ease office massage years ago internal revenue service office san jose calif. opened doors on-site massage even employees paid bill taxpayers grumbled sometimes release stress hear coming room explains morgan banks agency health specialist n't have taxpayers coming audit hearing last month complaints intensified massages ended now 're looking room thicker walls ms. banks says massage also has image problem contend masseurs have tried get calling bodyworkers describing office visits reinvigoration breaks massage matter chaste is still associated many minds seedy fronts prostitution makes executives nervous last year research development division weyerhaeuser co. large wood-products concern invited masseuse tacoma wash. offices phil harms software engineer was eager customer build lot tension working terminal day says months vice president division ed soule learned sessions brought halt mr. soule says only beef was massages were being given company conference room department supervised health facility have been fine view massages be managed appropriate mixture males females says given such attitudes corporate masseurs prefer go business quietly russell borner park ridge n.j. says has been working past year huge chemical manufacturing concern new york unbeknownst company executives visits same department weeks massage chair is kept closet secretary escorts past security is common lot large companies says mr. borner worked american telephone telegraph co. years choosing current trade managers contends are afraid 're going look eyes peers vision is change human consciousness touch attitude is let come closet occasionally 's needed is little coaxing elisa byler st. louis masseuse won officials emerson electric co. maker electrical electronic equipment providing documents other articles trumpeting therapeutic benefits massage notes also stresses professionalism weekly visits pull hair back wear little makeup look corporate says ms. byler has been visiting emerson january go there normally dress ask is hippie self-proclaimed father on-site massage is david palmer 41-year-old san francisco masseur mission is save touch-starved masses help do mr. palmer developed portable massage chair years ago hopes bring structured touching mainstream america culture is not ready take clothes lie down be touched hour says idea is keep clothes keep people seated chair is way package massage sitting mr. palmer chairs cost have been copied others is bit straddling recliner customers lean forward rest knees side supports bury face padding back chair ms. ohlman grand rapids masseuse says has heard odd-looking contraption compared something spanish inquisition mr. palmer serves president on-site massage association writes industry newsletter says practitioners certified masseurs country now use massage chairs workplace as well street corners airports malls conventions other gatherings weary people be found scot macinnis masseur boulder colo. had scary experience massaging man natural-foods supermarket part store promotion minutes massage man curled up began shaking turned red paramedics were called week later man told mr. macinnis had suffered mild heart attack unrelated massage was powerful point career says 31-year-old mr. macinnis has taken liability policy business pulled through ambulance left were still people line waiting massage next woman was older was afraid touch 's falling off horse getting back on number fans office massage has won purists look down arguing naked full-body rubs are only way go linda aldridge does full-body work pittsburgh says on-site massage is better nothing tired workers realize is only tip iceberg whole areas bodies are neglected says adding clothes ruin experience 's nothing skin skin