conner peripherals inc. has near-monopoly key part used many portable computers is target surpass compaq computer corp. fastest-growing start-up manufacturing firm u.s. business history conner dominates market hard-disk drives used store data laptop computers said yesterday net income third quarter soared % cents share cents share year-ago period revenue totaled increase % year ago months san jose calif.-based company said net income jumped % cents share cents share revenue nearly tripled analysts expect conner earnings reach roughly share sales company third full year business 's faster growth rate reported compaq did n't similar results fourth year compaq had achieved level sales faster previous manufacturing start-up conner performance is closely tied burgeoning demand battery-operated computers computer industry fastest-growing segment inception conner has benefited helped make possible rapid spread portable computers selling storage devices consume times less electricity drives used desktop machines today conner controls estimated % hard-disk drive market laptop computers company supplies drives compaq zenith data systems top u.s. manufacturers laptops toshiba corp. nec corp. sharp corp. leading japanese laptop makers 've had field year now 've been greatly rewarded said bob katsive analyst inc. market researcher los altos calif coming months however is likely change next month seagate technology is dominant supplier hard-disk drives personal computers plans introduce first family low-power drives battery-operated computers japanese are likely keep close conner heels are going catch said david claridge analyst hambrecht quist toshiba nec already produce hard-disk drives sony also is studying field mr. claridge said conner is n't standing still yesterday company introduced products are aimed hot new class computers called notebooks drives uses mere watts power weighs just ounces most competitors are announcing products based older products said finis conner chief executive officer founder firm bears name continue develop products faster anyone else new products account as much % company business mr. conner estimated 're not afraid obsoleting old stuff stay ahead competition said conner already is shipping new drives last week instance compaq introduced first notebook computer rave reviews conner is supplying hard-disk drives machine weighs only pounds fits briefcase inception conner has targeted market battery-operated machines building hard-disk drives are smaller use far less power offered competitors such seagate availability drives turn boosted demand laptop computers usefulness had been limited because lack storage conner also makes hard-disk drives desktop computers is major supplier compaq july owned % conner stock sales compaq represented % conner business third quarter compared % year-ago period