last week british displayed unusual political immaturity chancellor exchequer nigel lawson resigned prime minister thatcher not fire trusted adviser sir alan walters opposition labor party leader neil kinnock display male chauvinism typical british lower class denounced mrs. thatcher having independent mind refusing heed men cabinet british press making mountain molehill precipitated unnecessary economic crisis portraying mrs. thatcher autocrat had thrown economic policy confusion driving respected figure government silly posturing lies real dispute mr. lawson european-minded colleagues want british pound formally tied west german mark sir alan considers ill-advised costly policy is effort anchor dollar gold other currencies dispute is worth examining resignation mr. lawson had been conducting british monetary policy pound were tied mark mrs. thatcher cut top tax rate % mr. lawson flooded country money prevent pound rising mark result reignited inflation mrs. thatcher long costly effort had subdued inflation surging pound began falling mark keep exchange rate pegged mr. lawson tightened monetary policy pushed interest rates up % doubled mortgage interest rates many new homeowners mrs. thatcher policies had created producing widespread disaffection pushing labor ahead polls instead realizing mistake letting exchange rate dominate british economic policy mrs. thatcher political fortune mr. lawson pushed tying pound formally mark entering european monetary system subordinates member currencies german monetary policy put mrs. thatcher bind concept european integration is grand schemes appeal intellectuals media imagination are full practical pitfalls pound had been tied mark british have been unable cut exorbitant tax rates reason is simple country cuts tax rates makes more attractive investors drives value currency was fear disturbing ems exchange-rate relationships caused chirac government france be timid cutting tax rates edouard balladur finance minister time was sold tax-cut policy was concerned government be criticized anti-european disturbing linked european currency relationship price attracting capital one own foreigners is trade deficit avoid deficit mr. lawson inflated pound order prevent rise misguided policy not prevent british trade deficit consequently mr. lawson saddled mrs. thatcher record trade deficit renewed inflation high interest rates political failures row little wonder mrs. thatcher opponents were so anxious keep mr. lawson office is extraordinary british treasury thought prevent trade deficit inflating pound british balance-of-payments statistics show top tax rate was cut % flow abroad british capital slowed pounds current rate pounds change british capital account required offsetting change trade account change not be prevented pegging currency nigel lawson was victim immense confusion thought has been characteristic western financial circles most important governments have ignored role low tax rates attracting real capital investment instead emphasizing financial flows response high interest rates has led fruitless destructive policy circle first comes monetary expansion drive currency value was pushed tax-rate reduction then currency falls interest rates are raised attract financial flows order stabilize exchange rate policy is totally mindless sir alan is correct point deficiencies britain europe need reconsider prospects european integration light possible reunification neutralization germany unified germany remained western alliance give germany overshadowing position other members unified europe become vassals german state soviet union collapses german reunification is likely require germany neutralization implications britain france rest europe having currencies tied economic policy neutral country need considering judge mr. lawson resignation be unfortunate least recognize futility trying use exchange-rate intervention offset effects tax-rate reduction capital flows mr. roberts was assistant treasury secretary president reagan