coming close partial settlement year ago shareholders filed civil suits ivan f. boesky partnerships once controlled again are approaching accord people familiar case said meanwhile next few weeks limited partners ivan f. boesky co l.p. are expected reach partial settlement drexel burnham lambert inc. regarding distribution partnership assets said individuals terms settlement limited partners drop civil suits drexel now pending federal court new york individual said attorneys involved talks said parties were closer accord were year ago reports imminent agreement circulated individual said shareholders accord was well worked however less optimistic attorneys warned tangle numerous defendants plaintiffs overlapping claims is always possibility talks again fall apart shareholders accord provide first restitution thousands individuals institutions claiming losses result insider trading boesky co. once largest arbitrage fund u.s plaintiffs are investors bought sold securities mr. boesky partnerships were dealing claim suffered losses sold was buying others bought was selling stocks involved shareholder suits include union carbide rjr nabisco american natural resources boise cascade corp. general foods corp. houston natural gas fmc corp are least class-action shareholder suits have been consolidated federal court new york u.s. district judge milton pollack defendants are mr. boesky now-defunct ivan f. boesky co. mr. boesky main underwriter drexel burnham cambrian general securities plc british investment fund once controlled mr. boesky individuals familiar negotiations said partial settlement being negotiated remove boesky partnership british fund mr. boesky defendants drexel other defendants remain charles davidow washington d.c.-based law firm wilmer cutler pickering represents mr. boesky matter said only discussions are way are agreements yet has been years mr. boesky now prison agreed pay fine settle government charges had traded illegally using insider information government set fund plaintiffs prove financial losses according william orbe attorney grais richards escrow agents fund sept. fund amounted separately attorneys so limited partners have had serious discussions lead distribution partnership assets limited partners include insurance companies financial institutions individual investors agreement drexel regarding limited partners investments is essential step getting money back is delaware court earlier year said drexel is entitled get money back same time limited partners drexel is owed partnership individual familiar negotiations said investments limited partners do not recoup partnership assets receive restitution fund available result drexel settlement government december drexel agreed plead guilty felony counts pay was set aside shareholders other plaintiffs including limited partners claim were injured drexel jailed african-american activist wins battle u.s. district judge robert p. patterson jr. ordered fbi immediately begin processing herman benjamin ferguson request documents stemming agency investigation 1960s fbi had said not be able begin processing request june mr. ferguson is years old fled u.s. exhausting appeals conviction conspiracy murder turned authorities new york earlier year maintains information fbi help get conviction vacated bail-jumping indictment dismissed attorneys claim was framed fbi new york police part campaign destroy black liberation movement 1960s federal freedom information act was n't law time fbi was n't required turn information investigations mr. ferguson appealed conviction 1960s federal court manhattan judge patterson said fbi records show mr. ferguson arrest was result questionable legal practices judge said fbi proposed schedule was followed releasing documents delay year have occurred plaintiff have served approximately two-thirds minimum sentence time receives files gabriel w. gorenstein assistant u.s. attorney handling case fbi said decision has been made appealing judge ruling federal courts urged cut costs reduce delays civil suits study conducted task force brookings institution suggests congress require courts develop plans study was initiated senate judiciary committee chairman joseph biden d. del washington d.c. think tank recommends courts adopt different tracks different types civil cases order separate handling highly complex suits simpler ones complex cases such antitrust suits many business disputes receive intense supervision federal judges keep pretrial proceedings moving standard cases require less judicial attention fast-track cases be resolved quickly study also said federal court set strict time limits pretrial exchange documents evidence ranging as much days cases fast track as much months complex disputes study said federal courts set firm trial dates early process take advantage local expertise custom study said congress require federal district courts adopt own plan speed handling civil suits reduce high costs civil cases study recommendations resemble similar projects makeup task force was unusually diverse adding significance effort included lawyers civil rights consumer groups plaintiffs lawyers defense attorneys corporate counsel law professors