dollar fall friday signal new bout weakness u.s. currency declines much further possibly end u.s. currency long-term climb began early entire sentiment has changed dollar bulls definitely have been shaken says jack kessler senior vice president charge new york foreign-exchange operations chase manhattan bank others cite friday plunge u.s. stock prices narrowing difference interest rates u.s. major trading partners particularly west germany japan many analysts also suspect federal reserve has begun reduce interest rates go further lower interest rates usually diminish currency appeal international investors speculators very late new york friday dollar had tumbled west german marks yen lows day marks yen thursday british pound rose day earlier tokyo monday dollar opened trading yen down friday tokyo close yen marks down friday close late morning dollar had recovered somewhat was trading yen marks stock market keeps going down monday 're going see lot people selling dollars says robert fio rito trader harris trust savings bank chicago added mark is good place be short-run dollar fate depends largely performance u.s. stock market today as well fed other central banks reaction happens world equity markets say traders analysts not only does dollar play key role determining direction health u.s. economy speed rises falls is also major concern u.s. foreign policy makers precipitous fall dollar reignite u.s. inflationary pressures raising price imports prompting u.s. manufacturers increase domestic prices u.s. currency were decline controlled manner contribute four-year effort u.s. major trading partners reduce u.s. trade deficit correspondingly large japanese west german surpluses 's weaker dollar makes u.s. exports less expensive raising price imports american consumers furthermore current stock market climate dollar is wire foreigners telegraph preference distaste u.s. securities signal confidence american economy financial system foreigners dump u.s. stocks return safety home markets did october simultaneously also sell dollars own currencies transactions turn weaken dollar even foreigners just withhold buying additional u.s. securities reduce demand dollars conversely foreigners buy american securities increase demand u.s. currency however foreigners merely sell american shares buy u.s. bonds do n't affect exchange rate initially friday dollar shot up early new york activity producer price index retail sales september came higher most analysts expected traders concluded u.s. interest rates remain firm dollar quickly climbed intraday highs marks yen rally quickly fizzled weight trader chagrin currency had n't risen further profit-taking unconfirmed reports fed was selling dollars few hours later dollar trading marks yen stock market began plunging taking u.s. currency surprisingly trading was hectic dealers say volume was unexpectedly moderate 're talking really thin volatile friday 13th says carmine rotondo chief corporate dealer security pacific national bank decline dollar was more function market makers dragging bids down people massively selling adds richard witten vice president charge foreign-exchange operations goldman sachs co intraday highs weeks ago u.s. currency has fallen almost % mark % yen friday trading alone dollar fell more % mark % yen high early new york trading currently dollar stands close upper limits so-called louvre trading ranges marks yen most traders economists believe group major industrial countries have tried keep february g-7 includes u.s. japan west germany france britain italy canada unfortunate aspects friday events make easier process continue says robert feldman international economist salomon brothers inc added until friday morning market people were contending further interest-rate hikes were necessary keep dollar bulls running central banks seemed be sense dollar bulls coming back taking control again past week half major european countries led west germany japan raised official domestic interest rates mostly keep currencies falling further stem inflationary impact declines mr. feldman added 's not way things look now have breathing room analysts say dollar future depends u.s. stock prices keep falling fed is forced ease credit ease crisis foreign equity markets also fall central banks abroad react circumstances many dealers are betting fed have ease monetary policy has n't already questions are much circumstances nothing happens abroad fed is forced ease here calm markets dollar is going go down be flight quality people start worry u.s. financial system says michael d. andrews vice president merrill lynch co dollar adds take pretty big hit fed were perceived being very difficult situation was fighting fire fact mr. andrews other traders analysts say is n't impossible paint scenario fed have intervene support dollar analysts believe fed tolerate dollar as low marks level u.s. companies are competitive overseas markets yet is n't too inflationary domestically much depends foreigners react merely sell american shares buy u.s. bonds n't affect dollar october dump dollar-denominated securities run foreign markets increase pressure dollar fall already began friday banks u.s. called counterparts far east europe says chase manhattan mr. kessler dealers had gone home far east europe long dollars started selling were awakened night told stock market was down fed funds were % fed begin ease mr. kessler adds salomon brothers mr. feldman says further evidence foreign selling was dollar plunge friday same time bond market was rallying has n't occurred months be signal turning point strategies international portfolio managers says harris trust mr. fio rito predicts equity market hit trigger further liquidation japanese germans raising interest rates fundamentals changed dollar indeed salomon mr. feldman notes september yields three-month eurodollar deposits were percentage points more three-month marks late friday spread had narrowed percentage point people began question shifting funds differences small adds many dealers are looking see dollar tumbles marks key psychological technical level many traders use charts predict currency movements breaks then begin question dollar long-term uptrend began early is still place says merrill lynch mr. andrews dollar is n't boosters point reduced u.s. budget trade deficits as well value so-called haven currency world rife political instability see stronger dollar mid long-term says gilles bazy-sire first vice president societe generale securities corp. new york says based price similar basket goods services major industrial countries dollar currently is very cheap says increase demand dollars investors want buy real u.s. assets such real estate companies dollar doubters point prospects bumpy u.s. stock market best prospect lower u.s. interest rates 's more many forecasters predict u.s. trade deficit begin widen again fact many analysts estimate trade gap august be released tomorrow widened as much previous month barring catastrophe u.s. stock market mr. kessler believes dollar near term weaken further about marks yen adds gut feeling is even see go lower commodity exchange new york friday gold current delivery settled ounce down cents estimated volume was light ounces early trading hong kong monday gold was quoted about ounce up ounce saturday close