americans are drinking less young professionals australia west germany are rushing buy premium-brand american vodka brandy other spirits particular many are snubbing scotch preferred parents opting bourbon sweet firewater kentucky countryside u.s. liquor consumption declining steadily many american producers are stepping marketing efforts abroad efforts are paying spirits exports jumped more times according distilled spirits council u.s. trade group spirits companies now view global marketers says michael bellas president beverage marketing corp. research consulting firm want be player have be america europe far east have world-class brands long-term perspective deep pockets internationalization industry has been hastened foreign companies acquisitions many u.s. producers recent years example grand metropolitan plc britain acquired heublein inc. british company guinness plc took united distillers group schenley industries inc shift has also been fueled necessity premium-brand spirits smirnoff vodka jack daniel whiskey are riding high u.s. domestic spirits consumption fell % cases cases recent years growth has come foreign markets u.s. brandy exports more doubled last year proof gallons standard industry measure according jobson beverage alcohol group industry association exports rum surged % proof gallons mexico is biggest importer rum brandy u.s japan world third-largest liquor market u.s. britain helped american companies april lowered tax imported spirits levied tax many domestic products california wineries benefiting lowered trade barriers federal marketing subsidies are expanding aggressively japan as well canada great britain japan wineries are promoting products pacific roots courting restaurant hotel chefs recommendations carry weight australia britain canada greece brown-forman corp. has increased marketing southern comfort liqueur using cinema television print ads company pitches southern comfort grand old drink antebellum american south biggest foreign inroads though have been made bourbon u.s. makers vodka rum other spirits compete powerhouses abroad trade agreements prohibit other country making bourbon bourbon comes kentucky jack daniel tennessee whiskey often is counted bourbon similarity taste moreover just vodka has acquired upscale image u.s. bourbon has become fashionable many foreign countries uniquely american product tied frontier folklore was west won six-shooter hand bourbon other imagine bourbon wild west western motion pictures gunmen appearing says kenji kishimoto vice president suntory international corp. division suntory ltd. japan largest liquor company suntory distributes brown-forman bourbons japan bourbon makes just % world-wide spirits consumption represented % u.s. liquor exports last year according jobson other category had more % big u.s. distillers are fiercely vying market grew last year according government figures jim beam brands co. division american brands inc. is leading exporter bourbon produces other types liquor company says increase international advertising % bourbon representing most amount guinness schenley industries unit has increased tv advertising japan has built partnerships duty-free shops asia enabling install prominent counter displays company i.w. harper brand is leading bourbon japan % market bourbon exporters have succeeded japan other industries have failed avoiding cultural hitches marketing distribution allying local agents jim beam brands has distribution partnership nikka whiskey co. distiller seagram co. exports four roses bourbon has link kirin brewery co bourbon makers advertise abroad do home promote jack daniel overseas brown-forman uses same photos front porches lynchburg va. avuncular old men overalls hightops jim beam print ads however strike different chords different countries australia land outback snapshot jim beam lies strip hand-tooled leather west germans get glitz bourbon foreground posh beverly hills hotel background ads england are artsy irreverent ad features huge robot carrying voluptuous woman faint tagline only asked wanted jim beam