earnings most nation major pharmaceutical makers are believed have moved ahead briskly third quarter companies newer big-selling prescription drugs fared especially well third consecutive quarter however most companies revenues were battered adverse foreign-currency translations result strong dollar abroad analysts said merck co. eli lilly co. warner-lambert co. squibb corp. unit bristol-myers squibb co. benefited strong sales relatively new higher-priced medicines provide wide profit margins less robust earnings pfizer inc. upjohn co. were attributed companies older products many face stiffening competition generic drugs other medicines joseph riccardo analyst bear stearns co. said past few years most drug makers have shed slow-growing businesses instituted other cost savings such consolidating manufacturing plants administrative staffs result major new products are having significant impact even company very large revenues mr. riccardo said analysts said profit dozen so big drug makers group is estimated have climbed % % 's not spectacular neil sweig analyst prudential bache said rate growth look especially good compared other companies economy turns downward mr. sweig estimated merck profit quarter rose about % propelled sales line-up fast-growing prescription drugs including anti-cholesterol drug mevacor high blood pressure medicine vasotec primaxin antibiotic pepcid anti-ulcer medication profit climbed even merck sales were reduced percentage points result strong dollar mr. sweig said third quarter merck earned cents share rahway n.j. merck spokesman said company does n't make earnings projections mr. sweig said estimated lilly earnings quarter jumped about % largely performance new anti-depressant prozac drug introduced last year is expected generate sales about year 's turning be real blockbuster mr. sweig said last year third quarter lilly earned share indianapolis lilly declined comment several analysts said expected warner-lambert profit also increase more % share reported like period last year company is praised analysts sharply lowering costs recent years shedding numerous companies low profit margins company lean operation analysts said allowed sharp-rising sales cholesterol drug lopid power earnings growth lopid sales are expected be about year up morris plains n.j. spokesman company said analysts projections are ballpark squibb profit estimated analysts be about % share earned third quarter was result especially strong sales capoten drug treating high blood pressure other heart disease company was officially merged bristol-myers co. earlier month bristol-myers declined comment mr. riccardo bear stearns said schering-plough corp. expected profit rise about % % bristol-meyers expected profit increase about % are largely companies are really managed well scheringplough earned cents share bristol-myers earned cents share like period year earlier madison n.j. spokesman schering-plough said company has problems average estimate analysts third-quarter earnings share rose about % company expects achieve % increase full-year earnings share projected spring spokesman said meanwhile analysts said pfizer recent string lackluster quarterly performances continued earnings quarter were expected decline about % sales pfizer important drugs feldene treating arthritis procardia heart medicine have shrunk because increased competition strong dollar hurt pfizer lot too mr. sweig said third quarter last year pfizer earned share new york company declined comment analysts said expected upjohn profit be flat rise only about % % compared cents share earned year ago upjohn biggest-selling drugs are xanax tranquilizer halcion sedative sales drugs have been hurt new state laws restricting prescriptions certain tranquilizing medicines adverse publicity excessive use drugs also company hair-growing drug rogaine is selling well about year company profit drug has been reduced upjohn expensive print television campaigns advertising analysts said kalamazoo mich. upjohn declined comment