cie. de navigation mixte chairman marc fournier said board unanimously rejected too low bid cie. financiere de paribas bring stake navigation mixte % news conference mr. fournier accused paribas planning pay takeover selling parts company interests include insurance banking tuna canning sugar orange juice chairman said board members including representatives west german insurance giant allianz ag french banks credit lyonnais societe generale hold nearly % navigation mixte capital mr. fournier said navigation mixte chairman is prohibited takeover regulations organizing own defense doing anything managing current company business sources said be urging allies boost stakes navigation mixte is being traded london is resume trading paris tuesday same time is expected seek legal regulatory means blocking delaying paribas bid moment sources said has decided seeking white knight organizing counterbid paribas mr. fournier said navigation mixte unconsolidated parent-company profit is likely be francs up francs last year is due mostly payments allianz most % stake has agreed acquire navigation mixte insurance business mr. fournier said exceptional gain mean nearly twice as high dividend year last holders avoid tendering paribas added expect strong dividends again next year analysts noted past years mr. fournier has built company astute stock-market activity has warded least takeover attempts time however analysts think face real battle unexpected do n't see block paribas bid said philippe de cholet analyst brokerage cholet-dupont cie mr. de cholet said mr. fournier biggest hope was somehow persuade regulatory authorities block bid paribas still needs go-ahead government regulatory agency analysts said is considered likely mr. fournier also noted navigation mixte joined paribas core shareholders paribas was denationalized said now holds just % paribas shares once realized paribas intentions were n't friendly said bid was launched sought approval boost paribas stake % petition is still pending mr. fournier downplayed likelihood organizing takeover bid own much-larger paribas big question now is likely role mr. fournier allies mr. fournier said large institutions hold nearly % navigation mixte capital all strongly support analysts said are n't so sure allianz example has said official comments so far remain neutral paribas is allianz lead french bank paribas said monday intends bid boost stake navigation mixte % % already owns purchase additional % stake is expected cost more francs paribas says offer francs navigation mixte shares enjoy full dividend rights francs block shares issued july receive only partial dividends year alternatively is offer paribas shares navigation mixte share paribas offer values navigation mixte about francs depending many navigation mixte warrants are converted shares takeover battle