economy stumbled akzo nv fell bed towering overcapacity synthetic fiber business accounted half dutch chemical company sales led huge losses left akzo survival doubt was n't early akzo nursed back health now new downturn chemical industry looms akzo says is far better shape cope investment analysts generally agree aside slashing costs investing heavily plants akzo has spent guilders acquisitions give better balance same period company has sold guilders assets fibers business products go textiles carpeting myriad industrial uses now accounts only % akzo sales have definitely become less cyclical syb bergsma executive vice president-finance said interview still akzo has n't yet found way achieve goal large presence u.s. market prescription drugs mr. bergsma said prices u.s. pharmaceutical companies remain too high making unlikely akzo pursue major acquisitions area said akzo is considering alliances american drug companies n't elaborate indication akzo success reshaping come thursday reports third-quarter results analysts expect company show profit guilders up % guilders year earlier bigger test come next year many analysts expect bulk chemical prices slump europe maybe akzo surprise investment world bit said jaap visker analyst amsterdam-rotterdam bank nv figures akzo is likely be few major chemical companies show profit growth year bank projects akzo show per-share earnings guilders up estimated guilders year guilders reported james capel co. london analyst jackie ashurst notes akzo is less exposed many rivals most volatile chemical products example akzo has only minor petrochemical operations is small plastics does n't make fertilizers thus akzo profited less many rivals boom recent years petrochemicals plastics has less fear current slump company is exposed bulk chemicals however bulk-chemical prices have begun falling u.s. are generally stable europe mr. bergsma said decline come first half said market does n't appear verge severe downturn reduce danger such pricing cycles akzo has invested heavily specialty chemicals have highly specific industrial uses tend produce much higher profit margins do bulk chemicals akzo biggest move area was acquisition stauffer chemical co. specialty chemical business less glamorous field akzo is world biggest producer industrial salt used raw material chemical industry as well such tasks melting ice akzo also makes products derived salt such chlorine caustic soda fibers division profit remains weak largely persistent overcapacity akzo is still slimming recently announced plans eliminate fiber-related jobs netherlands west germany polyester rayon markets remain mostly bleak akzo has high hopes emerging fiber businesses such carbon fibers aramid extremely strong fibers used reinforce tires metals make such products bullet-proof vests akzo twaron aramid fiber is distant second du pont co. kevlar dominates market mr. bergsma said world-wide industry sales aramid fibers are expected total year sales growth % year seems possible said akzo expects twaron business become profitable akzo also has spent heavily acquisitions paints auto finishes industrial coatings august example completed acquisition reliance universal inc. u.s. maker industrial coatings wood metals plastics tyler corp mr. bergsma said akzo is likely see strong profit growth coatings realizes cost savings other benefits greater scale akzo drug business profits have shown litle change past years mr. bergsma predicted moderate profit growth akzo is leading seller birth-control pills europe is still seeking regulatory approvals enter market u.s. japan mr. bergsma said akzo hopes have approval sell marvelon pill u.s. akzo also has small operations diagnostic tests generic drugs veterinary products veterinary products are showing especially strong growth mr. bergsma said leading products is flu shot horses