steve jobs took step back frontier personal-computer technology effort spur sales next inc. new machine mr. jobs moved remedy couple computer drawbacks yesterday lowering entry-level price next machine % buyer chooses hard-disk drive alternative next optical-storage device hard drive is storage device choice virtually desktop computer user also now supplement next futuristic optical device buyers pay full price mr. jobs co-founder apple computer inc. founded next years ago hopes fomenting revolution way desktop computers are designed used next computer introduced year ago aimed primarily university computer users sports snazzy graphics digital sound built-in networking sleek black design computer was proving hard sell high price lack software optical data-storage device was too slow machine began shipping end last year closely held company has n't disclosed sales however most universities have bought machines say are buying small numbers evaluation purposes universities now buy next computer optical storage device computer optical device still cost now on next outfit computer hard drive supply cost have already bought next machines commercial customers purchase same system businessland inc. computer retailer based san jose calif. roughly more mr. jobs said changes were prompted requests customers are frustrated performance optical device is n't offered standard equipment rivals factor was customers were asking do n't give cheaper system mr. jobs said conference university computing here optical-storage devices handle very large amounts data make far easier edit film clips audio recordings computer technology reliable is far slower widely used hard drives get delays caused optical device businessland is next exclusive dealer corporations has months been advising customers purchase hard drives machines next decision rely more-established hard drive next computer does n't signal retreat optical storage said mr. jobs years has said technology play crucial role next decade 're extremely committed optical storage technology said think everything go way few years said next generation optical drives be as fast hard drives depends outside suppliers devices university computer specialists welcomed move called necessary retreat cutting edge technology one 's likely increase next sales campuses standpoint being forefront technology is step backward said jerry w. sprecher senior computing manager california state university system definitely boost next sales universities however say next prices go even lower large numbers students purchase machine still like see student model priced about said ronald johnson director academic computing minnesota gustavus adolphus college has bought next machines broad acceptance next computer also is hindered difficulty distributing software most software is distributed cheap floppy disks next computer does n't come device reads next computer also needs more software applications mr. jobs said expects more soon said expects lotus development corp. introduce next version popular 1-2-3 spreadsheet program educators added next needs soon offer color version computer major maker offers computers color displays next n't comment do same is believed have color model development