bankers trust new york corp. became latest major u.s. bank increase reserves loans less-developed countries making third-quarter addition provision bank also said expects report loss third quarter loss full year new reserves bring company provision loans third world countries % bankers trust medium long-term loans countries step plate take big swing get problem do n't look back said james j. mcdermott analyst keefe bruyette woods approving move bankers trust has had capacity do time analyst said expects citicorp take similar step year citicorp yesterday reported % third-quarter earnings drop analysts called bit disappointing manufacturers hanover corp. posted loss quarter adding reserve loans less-developed countries other major u.s. banks posted earnings increases wells fargo co. san francisco posted % jump pnc financial corp. parent pittsburgh national bank reported net income climbed % net banc one corp. columbus ohio grew % citicorp analysts were only slightly disappointed citicorp numbers 's nothing here 's horrible nothing make think 're setting world fire said carole berger analyst c.j. lawrence morgan grenfell inc earnings bank global consumer business grew % consumer business continues drive earnings stream said mr. mcdermott keefe bruyette woods corporate finance trading results member countries organization economic cooperation development were relatively flat sometimes choppy bank said profit area sank % cross-border loan portfolio reflected adjustment problems episodic payment patterns bank said interest payments argentina months none brazil third quarter venezuela brought substantially current overall portfolio narrowed quarterly loss year earlier people were waiting see take additional provision medium-term long-term loans less-developed countries citicorp spokesman said reiterated bank position is comfortable current level covering % such loans outstanding ronald i. mandle analyst sanford c. bernstein co. called citicorp venture-capital gains taxes strong concerning item analyst cited was % jump expenses bank attributes costs expanding consumer credit-card operations overseas branch business citicorp spokesman said however bank is maintaining expenses proportion revenue growth wells fargo wells fargo continued generate highest profit margins major banks minimizing drop net interest margin % third-quarter growth high-yielding business loans similar growth mortgages margin fell only basis points percentage point year compared 13-point drop security pacific corp. much larger declines banks other parts country result wells fargo net interest income rose % quarter non-interest income fell slightly wells fargo continued rigorously control non-interest expense was almost flat combination solid loan growth tight expense control gave wells fargo % return average assets quarter % higher security pacific profit ratio matched only other major banks u.s wells fargo return equity increased % % wells fargo has sold non-trade loans made less-developed countries managed partly reverse sharp rise domestic non-accrual loans fell % previous quarter amount was still % higher year-ago level % higher percentage total loans trend wells fargo heavy exposure leveraged buy-outs are only worries analysts have wells fargo financial picture wells fargo is rebuilding loan-loss reserve increased sept. previous quarter was year bank still had shaky foreign loans manufacturers hanover manufacturers hanover said excluding addition reserves certain tax benefits one-time gain sale interest foreign leasing company third-quarter earnings were comparable year-earlier number was spokesman said bank additional provisions brought reserves loans less-developed countries covering % medium long-term loans outstanding nations net interest margin difference bank cost funds receives interest payments improved quarter did certain areas wholesale banking fees syndicating loans dropped % did n't take part lot deals quarter credit quality was poor spokesman said expenses unrelated interest rose % pnc financial pnc financial cited higher income sources unrelated interest said continues cut costs net interest income third quarter edged % trust income grew % service charges fees commissions increased % bank total allowance credit losses was % total loans