is year negative ad years secondary presence most political campaigns became main event irony is attack commercial getting boost last year presidential campaign has come age off-off election year only few contests scattered country leading political contests negative ads have reached new levels hostility raising fears kind mudslinging empty significant issues is ushering new era campaigns content now says joseph napolitan pioneer political television idea is attack first last always trend started first stirrings politics accelerated dawn television age became sometimes-tawdry art form has reached entirely new stage get people attention days says douglas bailey political consultant tv ad needs be bold entertaining more often not means confrontational few years ago do n't even have worry ad is truthful as often not principal fights major campaigns are prompted ads take look then main attack commercials set tone tuesday elections new york city new jersey virginia new york city screen fills small tight facial shot david dinkins democratic candidate mayor new york city david dinkins failed file income taxes straight years says disembodied male voice then television commercial paid for republican rudolph giuliani campaign produced roger ailes master negative tv ads really gets down business mr. dinkins ad charges also failed report campaign contributions accurately hid links failing insurance company paid convicted kidnapper phony organization members receipts office david dinkins says kicker does always wait 's caught nasty innuendoes says john siegal mr. dinkins issues director designed prosecute case political corruption simply does n't exist stung giuliani ads mr. dinkins tv consultants robert shrum david doak finally unleashed negative ad own screen shows distorted unrecognizable photos presumably politicians compare candidates mayor says announcer one says 's banning cop-killer bullets other has opposed ban cop-killer bullets one claims 's pro-choice other has opposed woman right choose funny thing says kicker candidates are named rudolph giuliani 's telling truth everybody nobody 's classic situation ads are true not always fully accurate mr. dinkins did fail file income taxes years insists voluntarily admitted oversight was being considered city job was board insurance company financial problems insists made secret city campaign finance board has refused pay mr. dinkins matching funds campaign records are incomplete campaign has blamed reporting problems computer errors says mr. dinkins did n't know man campaign paid get-out-the-vote effort had been convicted kidnapping say mr. dinkins managers did have office organization did have members mr. giuliani campaign chairman peter powers says dinkins ad is deceptive other side argues knows giuliani has always been pro-choice even has personal reservations know is generally opposed cop-killer bullets had reservations language legislation virginia democratic lt. gov. douglas wilder opened gubernatorial battle republican marshall coleman abortion commercial produced frank greer analysts political persuasion agree was tour force shot monticello superimposed american flag announcer talks strong tradition freedom individual liberty virginians have nurtured generations then just image statue thomas jefferson dissolves screen announcer continues issue abortion marshall coleman wants take away right choose give politicians commercial said mr. coleman wanted take away right abortion even cases rape incest charge mr. coleman denies changed dynamics campaign transforming least part referendum abortion ad prompted mr. coleman former virginia attorney general launch series advertisements created bob goodman designed shake mr. wilder support very women were attracted abortion ad coleman counterattack featured close-up young woman shadows ad suggested was recalling unpleasant courtroom ordeal voice says c'mon now do n't have boyfriends then announcer interjects was douglas wilder introduced bill force rape victims age younger be interrogated private lives lawyers accused rapists so next time mr. wilder talks rights women ask law tried pass mr. wilder did introduce such legislation years ago did so request constituent common legislative technique used lawmakers legislation noted was introduced request mr. wilder introduced bill protect rape victims unfounded interrogation people have grown tired ads coleman has gotten stigma being negative campaigner says mark rozell political scientist mary washington college wilder has managed get idea coleman say anything get elected governor more important has been able put onus negative campaigning coleman mr. coleman said week devote remainder political season positive campaigning truce lasted only hours tuesday night television stations were carrying new ads featuring mr. coleman raising questions mr. wilder sensitivity rape victims new jersey attacks began democratic rep. james florio aired ad featuring drawing pinocchio photograph mr. florio rival republican rep. jim courter remember pinocchio says female voice consider jim courter then commercial produced bob squier gets own mean dirty business pictures rusted oil drums swim focus female voice purrs hazardous waste mr. courter property neighbors are suing consumer fraud nose mr. courter face grows only fraud involved cry mr. courter partisans is florio commercial so courter campaign has responded own pinocchio commercial produced mr. ailes one screen fills photographs candidates 's really lying asks female voice florio 's lying voice goes barrel courter land contained heating oil was cleaned caused pollution mr. courter long nose shrinks mr. florio grows 's telling truth stephen salmore political scientist new jersey eagleton institute says 's example ad 's true not fully accurate barrels were dumped courter property complaint was made is evidence barrels were serious threat environment even so according mr. salmore ad was devastating raised questions mr. courter credibility 's building long tradition route re-election rout democrat frank o'connor gop gov. nelson rockefeller new york appeared person saying want keep crime rates high o'connor is man