federal state thrift examiners said saw evidence criminal wrongdoing collapse lincoln savings loan association california regulator described attempted whitewash deputies chief federal regulator danny wall riveting day hearings house banking committee examiners described finding shredded documents mysterious panamanian subsidiary millions dollars funneled swiss bank complacent attitude mr. wall deputies was portrayed acting more public-relations man thrift federal regulator california official also said sent federal bureau investigation packet documents relating previously reported contribution lincoln parent solicited sen. alan cranston d. calif federal examiner alex barabolak said lincoln operations amounted pyramiding debt provide luxurious life style owners federal examiner john meek said lincoln principal owner charles keating jr. family drew least thrift salaries bonuses proceeds securities sales years federal authorities seized earlier year lincoln collapse cost taxpayers as much according estimates making most expensive thrift failure history think overwhelming evidence indicate probable criminal activity said mr. meek participated last year examination irvine calif. thrift said evidence pointed wrongdoing mr. keating others did n't allege specific violation richard newsom california state official last year examined lincoln parent american continental corp. said also saw evidence crimes had been committed sure smells said said % loans sampled were dead meat day were made state examiner also said supervisors parallel federal examination seemed so reluctant demand write-downs lincoln bad loans immediately grew suspicious later on concerns whitewash became even more serious said called sour loans appalling added opened file just jumped leonard bickwit washington attorney lincoln parent corporation said interview deny criminal behavior association officers testified yesterday have consistently maintained anyone did n't agree is part coverup whitewash subject excessive influence mr. bickwit said simply do n't agree findings investigation mr. wall deputies complained had n't been given opportunity respond criticism brought banking committee hearings committee chairman henry gonzalez d. texas has used forum flay mr. wall handling affair demand step aside job couple things mr. newsom said were least misleading said kevin o'connell washington regulators responsible handling lincoln interview said federal regulators eventually declared loans state regulator cited be total loss forced lincoln make downward adjustment response whitewash simply be look happened washington official alvin smuzynski said interview federal officials seized association april day parent corporation entered bankruptcy-law proceedings government later brought fraud suit mr. keating others rep. gonzalez has complained regulators waited far too long however ignoring recommendation regional officials place lincoln receivership years failed took reckless course ignoring evidence rep. gonzalez said state thrift examiner eugene stelzer said found chief federal examiner steve scott be totally uninterested allegedly fraudulent series transactions frankly was worked lincoln public-relations department mr. stelzer testified david riley federal examiner worked mr. scott said found chief oddly upbeat lincoln asked comment spokesman mr. scott said mr. scott has spoken attorney has advised not talk anybody mr. meek said day lincoln parent entered bankruptcy proceedings other examiners saw truck sign said was document destruction center observed least large plastic bags shredded paper loaded truck mr. bickwit said paper had been donated charitable organization sells recycling shredded simply contained financial information creditors depositors mr. meek said suspicions were aroused several foreign investments lincoln including paid credit suisse switzerland interest saudi european bank paris investment bahamas trading company recently discovered holding panama-based company southbrook holdings mr. bickwit said see s&l examiner regard unusual activities said overseas investments essentially broke even s&l