junk-bond markdowns ongoing securities exchange commission investigation drexel burnham lambert connection fizzled buy-out rumor has cast pall columbia savings loan association high-rolling 43-year-old chairman thomas spiegel built beverly hills calif. thrift high-yield junk bonds bears have targeted columbia stock thrift exposure shaky junk market investors fault mr. spiegel life style earns millions dollars year flies columbia jet planes columbia stock recently hit reaching earlier year rumors mr. spiegel take thrift private moreover junk professionals think columbia huge third-quarter markdown junk portfolio was n't enough meaning markdown be coming recent days columbia has edged closing up yesterday revived speculation thrift might restructure mr. spiegel fans say columbia southern california branches are highly salable thrift has shareholders equity underlying assets 's almost equity columbia share including convertible preferred shares more junk markdowns reduce cushion columbia has only common shares public hands spiegel family has % common % votes other big common holders are carl lindner american financial investor irwin jacobs pacific financial research latter cut stake summer many problems attend restructuring columbia investors say mr. spiegel is mulling plan mitigate columbia junk problems indeed columbia executives recently told reporters were interested creating separate unit hold columbia junk bonds perhaps do merchant banking columbia n't comment speculation other thrifts 's expected seek regulators consent create distinct junk-bond entity plans do are due be filed week so new rules force thrifts write junk market value then sell bonds years 's columbia just wrote junk reserved future junk losses columbia keep junk bonds separate thrift mature full value issuer goes bust restructures junk portfolio do all right columbia longtime drexel client n't provide current data junk big junk holdings year end showed only few bonds have been really battered were allied stores western union telegraph gillett holdings sci television texas air many other bonds columbia portfolio also have lost value possibly offsetting columbia recently estimated has unrealized gains publicly traded equity investments more also hopes ultimate gains as much equity investments buy-outs restructurings trial balloon mr. spiegel is said have floated investors columbia be broken mellon bank was split good bank bad bank columbia good bank be regulated thrift bad bank be private investment company holding columbia junk bonds real estate equity investments think columbia thrift now is seeking new chief operating officer be capitalized say shopped commercial bank wants california presence thrift surely be sold more value equity financial industry executives say meanwhile bad bank junk bonds capital be spun columbia shareholders including mr. spiegel then have new career investors say is n't clear much restructuring help columbia stockholders concept is workable sell good bank ongoing operation use proceeds capitalize bad bank says thrift specialist lewis ranieri ranieri associates new york mr. spiegel next career move is subject speculation wall street few people think mr. spiegel wants run bread-and-butter thrift current rules force columbia become are n't really thrift says jonathan gray sanford c. bernstein analyst course regulators have approve columbia reorganization investment bankers say restructuring is n't feasible sec still is scrutinizing mr. spiegel past junk-bond trades pauline yoshihashi los angeles contributed article columbia savings loan nyse symbol csv business savings loan year ended dec. net income share third quarter sept. net loss share net income cents share average daily trading volume shares common shares outstanding note per-share figures are fully diluted