day last march cbs sports president neal pilson olympics superagent barry frank met lunch lotos club here mr. frank told mr. pilson olympics officials wanted more tv rights winter games norway cbs official said price sounded fine price cbs was only player table negotiations international olympic committee started toronto aug. dick pound committee member began disclosing abc nbc had refused even bid then asked mr. pilson raise offer anyway have number starts have dea mr. pilson team huddled hallway took just minutes return offer mr. pound responded 's deal beaming mr. pilson announced lastest coup news conference afternoon mr. pilson rivals abc nbc grimaced price cbs get pushed outbidding well cbs mired ratings cellar looking sports way wanted close deal immediately block rivals getting chance bid mr. pilson has been put uncomfortable role setting bidding frenzy sports rights frenzy networks had hoped avoid price poker has gone up crows charles m. neinas college football association executive director cbs inc. spending spree top years major sports events new bout hyperinflation jolt entire broadcast business cbs run losses few dollars years various sports big gamble goes wrong abc unit capital inc. general electric co. national broadcasting co. also risk losses outbid cbs other contracts rights fees head skyward ad rates n't advertisers already are balking higher prices networks are paying too much rights warns adman paul isacsson young rubicam ask advertisers absorb costs 're likely lose few need sports viewers not be cheering either soaring rights fees lead even greater clutter commercials same time sports events move free television cable pay-cable nation tv homes n't see cbs has changed rules throwing old basis sports bids is network alone make profit mr. pilson emphasizes ancillary benefits positive press contented affiliate stations enthusiastic advertisers huge audiences stick around watch other cbs programs game is billion-dollar question is much are benefits worth tv people doubt materialize argue even do n't offset multimillion-dollar deficits cbs run up 've seen '80s says roger werner president espn sports channel deals turn sour numbers do n't work years later sea red ink heroes find lot explaining do cbs pursues top sports belie fact are n't supporting affiliates viewers advertisers charges thomas h. wyman was ousted chairman cbs inc. laurence a. tisch bought % stake company took over years ago lost entertainment crown needed one 've bought one just big deals years baseball olympic winter games pilson bid total 's well dollars more abc nbc were willing pay winter summer olympics be held years apart revised schedule beginning winter games summer games now mr. pilson former college basketball player says good negotiator needs level focus intellectual attention similar good athlete-s is facing consequences own aggressiveness next month talks begin coveted cbs contracts pro college basketball finals cbs is likely spend takes keep potential bill more several seasons % jump few months later cbs college pro football contracts come up renewal go close more cbs now pays % % rise happens basketball contracts shape next years network sports says peter lund former cbs sports president now multimedia inc j. william grimes former president espn says nbc come in huge bid college basketball take away cbs say overbid too winners be colleges not network way advertisers mr. pilson is unlikely big spender mid-1980s abc had just bid record winter games sniped rivals paying reckless prices love pilson was guy complained most bitterly loudly says robert wussler former cbs sports president yet company is reason rights are so high today rivals carp principle pilson nbc arthur watson once put 's always expounding rights are too high then 's going crazy 49-year-old mr. pilson is hardly man ignore numbers yale law school graduate began career corporate law then put years metromedia inc. william morris talent agency joined cbs sports head business affairs years later became president mr. pilson says spoke out few years ago did n't say forever did n't say property market changed adds is n't only big spender nbc pay record summer games espn 80%-owned capital shell years baseball airing regular-season games year competitors say overbid cares maybe recognize values other guys do n't mr. pilson says mr. pilson major events strategy jelled mr. tisch took mr. pilson recalls april cbs annual meeting philadelphia mr. tisch took 90-minute train ride back new york mr. pilson used extended private audience outline ambitions mr. tisch billionaire hotels finance was just learning tv business months later mr. tisch took over cbs chief executive soon was wielding sole approval time mr. pilson scribbled frighteningly large figure slip paper sealed envelope gave sports negotiators then may mr. tisch urgently needed make bold statement quell rumors sell network mr. pilson gave one bid rights winter games albertville france abc nbc n't bid even started still-raging bidding wars major events strategy mr. pilson says is designed notch place cbs crowded tv dial 1990s 's also fast fix ailing image sees flashy sports only way last-place network cut clutter cable vcrs grab millions new viewers tell other shows premiering few weeks later october cbs first time n't have start season much-watched american national baseball league championships world series 've been struggling years says jonathan rodgers runs wbbm-tv cbs-owned station chicago even baseball triggers losses cbs does n't think rather see games air nbc abc says is n't surprising regular tv series ratings have slumped past years premiering new shows is crap shoot mr. pilson says top sports events are still strong bet lure audiences % % larger cbs usually gets mr. pilson says baseball olympics help cbs move up no. household ratings race putting pizazz back network image winter olympics air february sweeps ratings are used set ad rates local stations please once-grumpy affiliates aim pilson plan gleefully await dream season cbs air super bowl baseball playoffs college pro basketball finals other premier sports events 's made more committed cbs says philip a. jones president meredith corp. broadcast group has cbs affiliates cbs plan use big-time sports platform other series carries guarantee success however amount hype bring viewers back shows are weak market channels sophisticated viewers remote control trial is n't guarantee anything espn mr. werner says show ai n't killer 're gone summer games example abc touted call glory military drama was missing action weeks last october summer games nbc relentlessly pitched new series tattingers belly-flopped anyway moreover sports is hardly best way lure adult women though cbs move up no. household ratings most advertisers buy based ratings women aged cbs remain distant no. regard is cbs shoo-in get blockbuster ratings recent years world series olympics were aired cbs last-place lineup cbs put athletes bill cosby cheers other shows nbc no. schedule even boon affiliate relations be limited sports lineup add only % % station annual profits alone is n't likely stop station dumping cbs shows world series nights was n't enough incentive says arnold klinsky whec-tv rochester dropped cbs nbc weeks ago 've got judge network be years intangible benefits prove extremely costly cbs n't avoid big losses sports coverage avoiding such losses take monumental effort baseball agreement alone cbs is likely lose years contends mr. wussler former cbs man now comsat inc nevertheless deems deal plain smart huge promotional value mr. pilson calls loss estimate wildly inaccurate conceding only cbs lose money baseball first year 's too early tell happens says mr. tisch expects losses years contract told u.s. senators last june cbs pay average more year abc nbc had paid together networks expect losses baseball season yet cbs air only regular-season games fewer abc nbc has outraged fans also indicates drop ad sales regular-season games risk cbs took get unprecedented lock playoff games playoffs end four-game sweeps losses soar advertisers are resisting higher prices help close gap cbs signed general motors toyota be only auto-maker sponsors baseball years price ad executives negotiated deal say works out only 30-second ad world series % less abc is charging series month moreover 's question ad rates come considerably gm-toyota price says arnold chase bozell inc other admen however say rates rise later ad spending surges winter games outlook also is mixed cbs expects make modest profits rivals contend take beating abc lost winter games partly rights fee aired hours mostly live events calgary helping raise ratings slightly still failed deliver audience promised advertisers cbs add hours load ratings be hurt lack live events prime-time fare be tape-delay time differences norway so results be announced o'clock news turner broadcasting pay cbs air hours cbs coverage hours additional events barry frank agent took mr. pilson lunch last march says even cbs loses say matters little ai n't jack got sitting bank says mr. frank senior vice president international management group citing cbs enormous cash reserves selling various businesses does n't mean anything 's public-relations money moreover sports has claimed place guaranteed ratings-getter says david j. stern commissioner national basketball association is n't outlandish bidding is situation very careful businessmen making judgments worth product acting tend trust judgment 's easy say cbs four-year nba pact now years double price time talks mr. pilson are completed later month cut cbs slim margin profit error cbs sports earned so last year cbs takes least money prime time abc nbc charge % % more ads according variety survey cbs costs are huge risks go up new sports package cbs locks sports officials predict jumps % % major contracts coming up renewal ad rates rise only % cbs hopes save money ordering fewer episodes regular series sports fill few weeks prime time savings be minuscule hour olympics baseball prime time cost cbs hour-long drama costs only is aired twice cbs cushion losses year interest earned proceeds selling cbs records other businesses media-stock analyst richard j. macdonald macdonald grippo riely says wall street n't take kindly stand-alone basis network make money says mr. pilson is asked directly make money does n't exactly say 're really asking is are profit loss margins anticipated events acceptable management says then answers own question are 's only question need address