stock ual corp. continued be pounded signs british airways balk hasty reformulation aborted buy-out united airlines parent ual stock plummeted further volume more shares new york stock exchange composite trading plunge followed drop monday indications takeover take weeks be revived stock has fallen % trading days announcement collapse 300-a-share takeover jolted entire stock market second-worst plunge ever is total bloodbath takeover-stock traders investment banker said los angeles financier marvin davis put united play bid months ago last night proffered ray hope extra element uncertainty saying remains interested acquiring ual dropped earlier 300-a-share back-up bid saying first explore bank financing even citicorp chase manhattan corp. scrambled line bank financing revised version lapsed labor-management bid british airways % partner buying group indicated wants start scratch partners are united pilots were own % ual management % adding insult injury united 25,000-member machinists union helped scuttle financing first bid yesterday asked ual chairman stephen wolf other ual directors resign similar demand was made group represents united noncontract employees john peterpaul machinists union general vice president attacked mr. wolf greedy irresponsible pursuing buy-out mr. wolf john pope ual chief financial officer stood pocket stock options buy-out ual executives planned reinvest only new company blue-collar machinists longtime rivals white-collar pilots say buyout load company debt weaken finances confusion banks hurried efforts round financing new bid ual board has n't even seen helped send ual stock spiraling downward rumors forced selling takeover-stock traders triggered 25-point downdraft dow jones industrial average a.m. edt yesterday yesterday selling began japanese news agency reported japanese banks balked first bid were ready reject revised version share several reports day progressed gave vague conflicting indications banks sign up citicorp example said only had expressions interest transaction borrowers banks did n't have agreement late day mr. wolf issued onepage statement calling mr. peterpaul blast divisive uncalled gave few details progress new bid saying only are working revised proposal majority employee ownership meanwhile sign new bid is n't imminent was learned ual board held telephone meeting monday hear update situation formal board meeting is n't likely be convened early next week london british airways chairman lord king was quoted times declaring is not prepared take shareholders hasty deal observers said appeared british air was angered way bid has degenerated confusion as well banks effort round financing called deal is n't deal effort revive bid was complicated unwieldy nature three-party buying group pilots were meeting chicago yesterday british air was have supplied equity financing apparently was n't involved second proposal well reject even banks obtain financing group united noncontract employees said statement fact wolf other officers were going line pockets literally millions dollars instituting severe pay cuts nonunion employees united is not only deplorable inexcusable machinists also asked investigation securities exchange commission possible securities-law violations original bid ual mr. davis as well response ual last week just bank commitments were due union asked u.s. labor department study bid violated legal standards fairness governing employee investment funds statement mr. wolf said continue believe approach is sound is far better employees alternative having outsider own company employees paying just same mr. wolf has eschewed merger advice major wall street securities firm relying instead only takeover lawyer peter atkins skadden arps slate meagher flom huge drop ual stock prompted takeover stock trader george kellner managing partner kellner dileo co. deny publicly rumors firm was going business mr. kellner said losses ual stock firm health is excellent stock decline also has left ual board quandary not be legally obligated sell company buy-out group n't revive bid have explore alternatives buyers come back bid much lower group original 300-a-share proposal meeting sept. consider labor-management bid board also was informed investment adviser first boston corp. interest expressed buy-out funds including kohlberg kravis roberts co. forstmann little co. as well robert bass morgan stanley buy-out fund pan am corp takeover-stock traders were hoping mr. davis other interested parties re-emerge situation disarray board consider recapitalization meanwhile japanese bankers said were still hesitant accepting citicorp latest proposal