general motors corp. ford motor co. are now going head head markets shares jaguar plc gm got early clearance federal trade commission boost stake british luxury car maker gm confirmed friday received permission late thursday u.s. antitrust regulators increase jaguar holdings level ford got similar go-ahead earlier october friday jaguar announced no. u.s. auto maker had raised stake % shares % earlier week spokesman gm no. auto maker declined say many jaguar shares company owns late trading friday jaguar shares bucked downward tide london stock market rose pence pence trading volume was moderately heavy shares u.s. jaguar american depositary receipts were most active issues friday national over-the-counter trading closed up cents analysts expect u.s. auto giants move quickly buy % stakes jaguar setting potential bidding war prestigious jaguar brand british government restrictions prevent single shareholder going % end government permission british government owned jaguar still holds controlling golden share company golden share protection jaguar officials have rebuffed ford overtures moved instead forge alliance gm jaguar officials have indicated are close wrapping friendly alliance gm preserve jaguar independence deal has been announced ford other hand has said 's willing bid jaguar objections jaguar chairman sir john egan analysts continued speculate late last week ford try force issue calling special shareholder meeting urging government jaguar holders remove barriers full bidding contest december ford spokeswoman dearborn said friday company has n't requested meeting yet individuals close situation believe ford officials seek meeting week sir john outline proposal full bid discussions ford postpone jaguar-gm deal headed completion next weeks gm agreement is expected retain jaguar independence involving eventual % stake u.s. auto giant as well joint manufacturing marketing ventures jaguar gm hope win jaguar shareholders approval accord partly structuring way n't preclude full ford bid once golden share expires 's minority stake package capable getting jaguar shareholder approval is n't said knowledgeable individual is n't deal n't be put forward shareholders union sentiment also influence shareholder reaction jaguar-gm accord gm u.k. unit holds crucial talks today union officials consideration ellesmere port site first major engine plant britain auto-industry union leader said try build somewhere else europe u.k. are going be big trouble unionists jaguar deal