tv weatherman gets butterflies facing camera again questionable forecast donald h. straszheim surely understands chief economist merrill lynch co. finds position buzzes midwest first road trip backpedaling major prediction mr. straszheim expects take heat 's right last time traveled way several months has recanted series bold forecasts recession february example merrill lynch weekly commentary announced economy is likely fall recession early forecasts were widely disseminated splashy ad campaign launched summer merrill lynch urged investors buy bonds said long-term interest rates then % drop % end bonds benefit falling rates be good buy firm also raised percentage bonds model portfolio % % later % september just many market economists including merrill lynch believed mr. straszheim was be proved right took detour not u-turn softened talk recession now fact is predicting economic growth % year % next year more optimistic outlook consensus dozen top forecasters surveyed blue chip economic indicators newsletter just recently merrill lynch cut recommended bondholdings back % such changes sound minor are n't merrill lynch manages oversees retail accounts include everything mutual funds individual annuities well-known colleagues believe mr. straszheim was right first time are david bostian jr. a. gary shilling run own new york research firms mr. bostian said august macroeconomic index signaled recession mr. shilling was merrill lynch chief economist has heralded recession months own personal opinion is don threw towel just time have doubled bet says now rocky stock market weak corporate profits further threaten economy mr. straszheim conceded recent drop manufacturing jobs prove be case got whipsawed pulled recession forecast just wrong time adds 's forecasting business risky business 's brisk days pestered bosses brokers clients media people pushed own egos wall street economists are forecasting everything broad economic trends dinkiest monthly indicator surprisingly durable seven-year economic expansion has made mincemeat more forecast is n't quiet economic science practiced universities is commercial version carrying new message road mr. straszheim meets confrontation often occurs inverse proportion size client sophisticated professional expects economists be right time smaller clients do n't seem notice switch clients talk heat bit dennis o'brien treasurer commonwealth edison co. chicago adopts polite approach waiting opportunity ask forecast good half-hour breakfast palmer house mr. o'brien looks plate mr. straszheim says something people believe interest rates are nosedive 'm hope debt books is forecast mr. o'brien asks trying pin economist does n't fully succeed mr. straszheim lists array interest-rate scenarios chilly conference room alliance capital management minneapolis contrast firm money managers seem ready pin mr. straszheim wall alfred harrison manager shoves mr. straszheim handout back do want go ask changed forecast just 's be right swiveling chair mr. straszheim replies new outlook still weak does n't justify calling recession right now 's handout do n't want look still have recession point mr. straszheim recurring themes is state economy is n't simple black white sometimes now 's gray somewhat-ambiguous assessment moves alliance portfolio manager ask so is stealth recession challenges merrill lynch bond recommendation last year 're not running ad campaign more mr. straszheim snaps rare show irritation adds think was fairly decent call explaining change mind mr. straszheim says later 's hard pin factor says economy especially employment numbers look much better expected interest rates have generally declined inflation has n't run amok business is constantly looking things says new forecast calls soft landing be right judging last week report inflation-adjusted gross national product rose % annual rate third quarter mr. shilling understands mr. straszheim problems 's unbelievable pressure economists forecast numbers says make forecast then become prisoner is indeed hard back away widely publicized forecast mr. straszheim is fidgeting handcuffs trip approach recantation is direct low-key time had forecast negative third fourth-quarter growth pulled forecast begins matter-of-factly meeting piper jaffray hopwood inc. officials minneapolis first stop