qintex australia ltd. encountered setback friday los angeles-based affiliate qintex entertainment inc. filed protection chapter u.s. bankruptcy code qintex entertainment also said david evans president chief executive roger kimmel director resigned be reached comment earlier month qintex australia agreement acquire communications co. collapsed dispute letter credit australian operator television stations resorts was have supplied security transaction mr. evans had been de facto head months qintex entertainment producer distributor television programs most noted co-production hit miniseries lonesome dove said filed chapter protection qintex australia failed provide owed mca inc. connection distribution new leave beaver show qintex entertainment is % owned qintex australia said relies australian company funding working capital requirements announcement bankruptcy filing qintex entertainment stock sank over-the-counter trading close heavy volume more shares stock traded as high past summer jonathan lloyd executive vice president chief financial officer qintex entertainment said qintex entertainment was forced file protection avoid going default agreement mca payment was due oct. deadline default was oct. mr. lloyd said qintex had defaulted have been required repay debt loan agreements mca friday said result qintex failure make required payment was terminating distribution agreement new leave beaver as well other mca properties qintex australia was saying as recently last weekend take care situation continued represent board said mr. lloyd were reassured stand company mr. lloyd said qintex entertainment qintex australia had attempted secure loan allow company make payment request was turned down unidentified lender oct. point said qintex australia stated endeavor arrange financing qintex australia spokesman said firm had never promised guaranteed make payment prepared statement australia company also said following breakdown mgm talks had been re-evaluating position significant shareholder substantial creditor qintex entertainment had resolved minimize degree further loans qintex entertainment excess previously made qintex australia spokesman added company had opposed chapter filing said company believed qintex entertainment financial problems have been resolved other means report bankruptcy filing stunned hollywood executives investors 's shocker said joseph di lillo chairman drake capital securities brokerage firm has investment qintex entertainment qintex australia was going pay more then n't come up far smaller sum qintex said mr. evans former president resigned personal reasons mr. kimmel attorney resigned participation evaluating company role buying was no longer necessary mr. kimmel was director company predecessor firm announcement seemed further damp prospects talks qintex australia be revived 's understood recently contacted rupert murdoch news corp. made failed bids movie studio see company was still interested however are n't currently doing anything is n't current topic conversation company said barry diller chairman chief executive officer fox inc. unit news corp