survival spinoff cray computer corp. fledgling supercomputer business appears depend heavily creativity longevity chairman chief designer seymour cray not only is development new company initial machine tied directly mr. cray so is balance sheet documents filed securities exchange commission pending spinoff disclosed cray research inc. withdraw almost financing is providing new firm mr. cray leaves product-design project heads is scrapped documents also said 64-year-old mr. cray has been working project more years cray-3 machine is least year away fully operational prototype moreover have been orders cray-3 so far company says is talking several prospects many risks were anticipated minneapolis-based cray research first announced spinoff may strings attached financing had n't been made public yesterday did n't have much choice cray computer chief financial officer gregory barnum said interview theory is seymour is chief designer cray-3 not be completed cray research did not want fund project did not include seymour documents also said cray computer anticipates needing perhaps financing beginning next september mr. barnum called worst-case scenario filing details spinoff caused cray research stock jump yesterday close new york stock exchange composite trading analysts noted yesterday cray research decision link promissory note mr. cray presence complicate valuation new company has be considered additional risk investor said gary p. smaby smaby group inc. minneapolis cray computer be concept stock said either believe seymour do again do n't designer age other risk factors mr. cray new company include cray-3 tricky unproven chip technology sec documents describe chips are made gallium arsenide being so fragile minute require special robotic handling equipment addition cray-3 contain processors twice as many largest current supercomputer cray computer also face intense competition not only cray research has about % world-wide supercomputer market is expected roll c-90 machine direct competitor cray-3 spinoff also compete international business machines corp. japan big hitachi ltd. nec corp. fujitsu ltd new company said believes are fewer potential customers supercomputers priced presumably cray-3 price range terms spinoff cray research stockholders are receive cray computer share cray research shares own distribution expected occur weeks price new shares has been set instead companies leave marketplace decide cray computer has applied trade nasdaq analysts calculate cray computer initial book value share note cray research is transferring assets primarily related development has been drain cray research earnings pro-forma balance sheets clearly show cray research favored spinoff cray-3 research development expenses company have been able report profit first rather posted other hand had existed then cray computer have incurred loss mr. cray n't be reached comment work new colorado springs colo. company independent contractor arrangement had cray research regarded father supercomputer mr. cray was paid cray research last year cray computer be paid messrs. cray barnum other senior management company includes neil davenport president chief executive officer joseph m. blanchard vice president engineering malcolm a. hammerton vice president software douglas r. wheeland vice president hardware came cray research cray computer currently employs people said expects work force end