martha o. hesse chairman federal energy regulatory commission was named senior vice president corporate affairs effective beginning next year banking company said duties include corporate advertising investor relations cleveland museum art american cities artist view nearly prints drawings paintings photographs dating 1850s present explore different artists have interpreted urban scene included are joseph pennell lithographs new york city 1900s black-and-white photos cleveland steel mills margaret bourke-white wayne thiebaud contemporary views san francisco east boulevard jan. pennsylvania academy fine arts philadelphia making mark women artists move mainstream more works painters sculptors photographers as well tapes documentation video performance artists artist represented laurie anderson alice aycock nancy graves elizabeth murray broad cherry streets oct. 20dec metropolitan museum new york gold africa barbier-mueller collection showcases king ransom west african artifacts culled renowned swiss collection objects display range whimsical bestiary gilded sword ornaments dazzling raiment ghanaian rulers 82nd st. fifth ave march cavin-morris gallery new york gregory van maanen many forceful heavily symbolic images self-taught artist were partly inspired service vietnam carry titles such death flight germans are born helmet shaped skulls hudson st. oct. 19-nov joffrey ballet company six-week manhattan season features pair premieres bronislava nijinska celebrated collaboration stravinsky pantages palace present two-a-day artistic director gerald arpino salute vaudeville other highlights include revival trinity mr. arpino rock-scored salute sixties beginning nov. late robert joffrey version nutcracker city center west 55th st. oct. 24-dec san diego opera opens 25th season mussorgsky boris godunov featuring leading singers conductor soviet union opera also opens san diego arts festival treasures soviet union bass alexander morozov leningrad kirov opera sings title role mezzo soprano irina bogacheva is scheming polish princess marina civic theatre b streets oct. bel canto tenor raul gimenez makes u.s. recital debut alice tully hall lincoln center 65th broadway oct. then heads lone star state make u.s. opera debut dallas opera don pasquale dec. jeff beck stevie ray vaughan many rock fans double bill rarely seen british legend beck texas tornado vaughan spell guitar heaven minneapolis northrop memorial auditorium oct. milwaukee mecca auditorium oct. chicago uic pavillion oct. st. louis fox theatre oct. columbus ohio ohio theatre oct. toronto sky dome nov. detroit cobo arena nov. pittsburgh palumbo center nov. landover md capitol centre nov. philadelphia spectrum nov. worcester mass centrum nov. manhattan madison square garden nov. cleveland public hall nov. dayton ohio hara arena nov. louisville ky louisville gardens nov. birmingham ala boutwell auditorium nov. atlanta omni nov. miami the arena nov. tampa sundome nov. houston sam houston arena nov. dallas state fair coliseum nov. austin frank irwin center nov. albuquerque n.m tingley arena nov. denver mcnichols arena nov. los angeles sports arena dec. oakland calif oakland coliseum dec.