mcdonnell douglas corp. reported % drop third-quarter net income douglas aircraft co. subsidiary appears be fixing problems douglas aircraft completed restructuring third quarter clearly is still adjusting jolt subsidiary posted loss quarter was one-time pretax gain stemming insurance payment lost is good news said jack modzelewski painewebber inc. analyst had expected douglas loss be as much second quarter subsidiary had loss least mr. modzelewski said 's losing money decelerating rate indeed investors were n't exactly gleeful mcdonnell douglas held steady new york stock exchange closing yesterday share unchanged mcdonnell douglas posted third-quarter net cents share down share year earlier latest results include extraordinary gain cents share divestiture bulk company information systems group year-earlier period company had loss discontinued operations sales st. louis-based aircraft defense company rose % troubles douglas continued be plagued high development costs new md-11 tri-jet parts shortages mcdonnell douglas combat aircraft segment also had difficulties profits division tumbled primarily reduced earnings ah-64 apache helicopter write-downs several other helicopter programs more than offset improved financial performance f-15 fighter earnings were also off % missiles space electronic-systems segment % rise revenue mr. modzelewski noting times are tough arms makers said expected mcdonnell douglas pentagon-related projects bounce next quarter degree number defense-oriented aerospace companies including northrop corp. general dynamics corp. have reported flat lower third-quarter earnings biggest question mark remains douglas deliveries md-80 jetliner competes primarily boeing co. series jumped third quarter second period year earlier losses program narrowed latest quarter second period company officials boast douglas account half mcdonnell douglas revenues compared about third now md-80 md-11 commercial jetliners douglas is building t-45 navy trainer c-17 military transport things long beach calif. subsidiary really be turned around has yet be seen douglas is improving said judith comeau analyst goldman sachs co. 're no need be