house appropriations committee approved estimated emergency funding assist california recovery last week earthquake extend further aid east coast victims hurricane hugo package was termed excessive bush administration also provoked struggle influential california lawmakers sought unsuccessfully add nearly more waive current restrictions expedite distribution funds 26-7 margin committee scuttled more expensive alternative debate forced strained confrontation appropriations committee chairman jamie whitten d. miss party largest state delegation house have regrets going forward said rep. vic fazio d. calif. sought later play sometimes hostile tone long evening meeting are golden state mr. fazio said is certain amount jealousy package incorporates small-business loans highway construction funds divided general emergency assistance reserve be available president bush meet unanticipated costs disasters funding is attached stopgap bill keep most government operating nov. measure is expected come house today congress is pressure complete action midnight edt tomorrow current continuing resolution expires given california size political importance white house is eager appear generous private meetings yesterday budget director richard darman argued only new federal appropriations are needed supplement existing resources white house budget office analysis estimates level committee bill is needed highway assistance meet california needs administration rejects notion new appropriations are needed finance disaster loans small business administration everybody appreciates is national disaster 've got address said mr. darman came capitol meet mr. whitten california lawmakers committee session hope very much n't end kind situation have bidding war then veto threat white house pressure was clearly factor committee republicans single influence was greater mr. whitten master pork-barrel politics had crafted package vintage style used full force chairmanship keep proposal intact dismiss alternative mr. fazio offered california-backed plan mr. whitten insisted full pages be read aloud panel clerk underscore range legislative changes also sought delegation chairman motion california package was subsequently reduced less-binding report language even was accepted such voice vote mr. whitten pointedly opposed more important money many cases are waivers california is seeking current restrictions covering federal highway funds such cap much single state receive emergency funds year mr. whitten package appears accomplish purpose state faces more resistance bid extended waiver having put matching funds repairs completed next months member house leadership skilled legislator mr. fazio nonetheless found burdened not only california needs hurricane hugo amendments accepted vain effort build support panel california democrat appeared embarrassed provisions inserted behalf owners private beaches virgin islands lumber interests sought add federal aid plant timber private land north south carolina california high-priced real estate puts awkward position too provision last night have raised cap disaster loans household accommodate san francisco losses