u.s. equal employment opportunity commission sued new york state age discrimination appointed state judges suit filed federal court manhattan charges new york mandatory retirement age violates federal law separately commission intervened connecticut state judge age-bias suit federal court new haven commission filing case challenges connecticut mandatory retirement age appointed judges new york suit was filed behalf justice isaac rubin appointment state appellate division expires year end other judges hurt alleged age discrimination suit assigned federal judge kimba wood seeks permanent injunction back pay judges have been forced retire reinstatement retired judges other affirmative relief necessary eradicate effects new york unlawful employment practices justice rubin state judge said mandatory-retirement age hurts court system deprives state experienced judges still capable serving bench issue is n't age age is just number issue is judge experience competence physical ability serve bench justice rubin said 've had problems performing duties responsibilities justice rubin turned may is n't eligible be reappointed bench end year suit impact new york be narrow however most new york judges are elected federal age-discrimination law does n't apply elected officials said james l. lee regional attorney eeoc new york new york law elected judges retire age then be appointed two-year terms reach spokeswoman state office court administration declined comment suit said state currently has appointed judges are connecticut however most state judges are appointed governor approved state legislature parties connecticut case have agreed stay proceedings pending appeal eeoc age-bias case vermont vermont case federal judge ruled state mandatory age appointed judges was illegal vermont appeal decision is pending u.s. second circuit court appeals manhattan aaron ment connecticut chief court administrator declined comment suit eeoc intervention said state has appointed judges trial referees are former judges over age serve restricted role bench organized crime strike forces likely be abolished next month u.s. attorney general dick thornburgh plan dissolve regional organized-crime strike forces is expected go effect month opposition democratic congressional leaders lawyers special units units are autonomous u.s. attorneys offices focus exclusively prosecuting organized-crime cases february mr. thornburgh announced plan abolish units says strike-force lawyers work more efficiently supervision u.s. attorneys mr. thornburgh be free disband strike forces congress approves appropriation federal law-enforcement drug-interdiction agencies according david runkel justice department spokesman bill is expected pass congress next month congress temporarily halted mr. thornburgh effort appropriation resolution prohibited using budgeted funds implement plan opponents say mr. thornburgh plan needlessly break longtime tightly knit crime-fighting units have successfully prosecuted major organized-crime figures predict organized-crime activity increase once units are dissolved responsibilities transferred u.s. attorneys offices former strike-force personnel say units have already begun break eastern district unit brooklyn n.y. lost attorneys year partly lawyers were troubled proposed reorganization says laura a. brevetti left strike force join morrison cohen singer weinstein new york law firm have left have expressed opinion strike force continue ms. brevetti says mr. runkel contends has been exodus strike-force lawyers says lawyers have left have been hired mr. thornburgh announced plan time plan was announced were lawyers congressional leaders intend continue fight independent strike forces spokesman sen. edward m. kennedy d. mass says mr. thornburgh be required reinstate units year proposed omnibus crime bill is passed other things bill calls reorganization justice department senate is expected consider bill shortly says senator spokesman mr. runkel says doubts mr. kennedy muster enough congressional support reorganize justice department vigorously oppose bill says do n't think reorganization is going happen whitman ransom recruits lawyers disbanding firm 204-lawyer new york firm bring least partners not yet determined number associates golenbock barell dissolve dec. golenbock lawyers has lost several partners past year golenbock lawyers n't be invited join whitman ransom according partners firms whitman ransom managing partner maged f. riad said golenbock recruits enhance firm corporate litigation departments short skirts not welcome texas court shelly hancock male county court judge houston refused let woman plead guilty drunk-driving charge skirt stopped inches knees woman appeared court thursday enter plea started approach bench was stopped judge hancock told woman lawyer victor blaine short skirt was inappropriate court appearance mr. blaine protests judge rescheduled case nov. kelly siegler assistant district attorney was courtroom disputed suggestions action was sexist saying had seen judge hancock turn away male defendants dressed shorts tank tops muscle shirts many times judge hancock did n't return phone calls