dollar weakened indecisive trading foreign-exchange dealers awaited fresh economic news hope jolt u.s. unit narrow ranges canadian dollar climbed highest level u.s. dollar late august prompting bank canada sell canadian currency market traders say week nervously tracking development wall street foreign-exchange market has settled catch breath ahead new u.s. economic data noted however 26-point drop dow jones industrial average gave dollar sharp nudge downward late day late new york trading yesterday dollar was quoted marks down marks late friday yen down yen late friday sterling was quoted up late friday tokyo tuesday u.s. currency opened trading yen down monday tokyo close yen market attention is especially focused preliminary report u.s. third-quarter gross national product due out thursday show economy is continuing expand relatively brisk pace consensus view real gnp total value u.s. output goods services adjusted inflation calls % gain annual basis slowing somewhat second quarter % still fairly strong few market participants expect u.s. unit rally sharply news turns as expected many contend report overstate economy health predict third-quarter figures be last vigorous statistics time come everyone is waiting gnp says walter simon assistant treasurer bank julius baer co even relatively strong number % % n't alter market view economy is softening hubert pedroli managing director foreign exchange credit suisse new york adds market sees last piece good news mr. pedroli notes gnp deflator measure inflation is expected slow give federal reserve more room ease key u.s. rates analysts predict % rise deflator climbing % second quarter note unexpectedly sharp widening u.s. trade gap august was reported earlier month hopes sustained narrowing trade deficit were dashed sentiment gripped market u.s. economy was losing momentum 190-point plunge u.s. stock shares compounded view say everyone is extremely convinced economy is slowing says senior new york dealer 're not headed recession 're certainly headed major slowdown market expects little reaction news u.s. durable goods orders scheduled release today participants note figures probably serve reinforce bearish sentiment u.s. durable goods orders are expected show decline % september according economists anticipated drop follows % rise august traders however are quick point is little enthusiasm buying dollars u.s. unit has found natural bottom about marks yen resilience levels is pegged persistent investor demand greenback especially japan commodity exchange new york gold current delivery settled ounce down cents estimated volume was very light ounces early trading hong kong tuesday gold was quoted ounce