foothills pipe lines ltd. filed application canadian regulators build canadian dollar pipeline transport natural gas canada arctic u.s. markets beginning application foothills owned calgary-based nova corp. alberta westcoast energy inc. vancouver canada is expected kick be contentious battle right transport vast quantities gas southern markets still-undeveloped fields canada mackenzie river delta is pre-emptive strike foothills said rick hillary natural gas manager calgary-based independent petroleum association canada industry group foothills wants make clear other pipeline companies 's first insofar transporting gas arctic southern markets mr. hillary said least rival applications are expected emerge coming months including transcanada pipelines ltd. canada largest natural gas pipeline operator is expected consortium oil gas producers won conditional approval month canada national energy board export about cubic feet mackenzie delta gas u.s. starting producers include shell canada ltd. unit royal group esso resources canada ltd. unit imperial oil ltd. is exxon corp. gulf canada resources ltd. unit olympia york developments ltd national energy board approval exports just waved starting flag next stage rush build facilities transport gas said bill koerner analyst brady berliner washington d.c. law firm foothills main rival build mackenzie delta pipeline is likely be transcanada pipelines toronto-based company together tenneco inc. houston has had incomplete proposal filed canadian regulators is now updating foothills transcanada polar gas consortium plans build pipeline directly south mackenzie river delta canada western arctic initial capacity transport cubic feet gas daily industry sources said expect fierce battle emerge transcanada has monopoly canadian gas transportation east alberta nova westcoast control pipelines running west alberta respectively is virgin territory unclaimed 's going be nasty said observer asked not be named is going back easily transcanada declined comment foothills application last week gerald maier president chief executive officer transcanada said company intends be party transportation system goes there consider joint ventures other players ensure has role number issues still need be resolved before canadian regulators give project final go-ahead first price natural gas have almost double kent jesperson president foothills said company believes project be viable gas prices reach cubic feet current dollars up current spot price about mr. jesperson estimate is somewhat floor price calgary-based consulting firm paul ziff co. recently said be needed mackenzie delta gas producers see return investment u.s. gas buyers also decide want enter firm contracts mackenzie delta gas develop alaskan reserves prudhoe bay area first project has been hold more decade robert pierce chairman chief executive foothills said 's too early say alaskan mackenzie delta gas flow market first foothills said plans seek regulatory approval build alternative line alaska natural gas transportation system further north alaska option is favored gas buyers regulators foothills said build smaller pipeline connecting mackenzie delta reserves alaska mainline 's also likely regulators try forge kind consensus would-be pipeline builders undertaking hearings rival projects douglas stoneman vice president shell canada noted producers prefer avoid hearings competing proposals lengthen regulatory review process bog development interprovincial pipe line co. oil pipeline operator rumored be mulling gas pipeline proposal own said is n't cards instead richard haskayne president chief executive interprovincial calgary-based parent interhome energy inc. said company prefer work other interested parties joint proposal foothills pre-emptive bid mr. haskayne said think gives kind priority position strategy