health-care companies get healthier third quarter medical-supply houses are expected report earnings increases about % average third quarter sales increases less % analysts say offset sluggish sales growth companies have been cutting staff mostly attrition slowing growth research development spending sales growth quarter was slowed mounting pressure groups buyers such hospitals hold prices suppliers were also hurt stronger u.s. dollar makes sales abroad more difficult cases competition has squeezed margins becton dickinson co. example faces stiff competition japanese supplier important syringe market franklin lakes n.j. company is expected report sales growth only % % still maintain earnings growth % says jerry e. fuller analyst duff phelps inc first group post results abbott laboratories said third-quarter net income jumped % cents share cents share year earlier sales company based abbott park ill. rose % baxter international inc. yesterday reported net climbed % third period cents share cents share year earlier sales deerfield ill. company rose % not company expects report increased earnings c.r. bard inc. yesterday said third-quarter net plunged % cents share cents share year earlier sales fell % murray hill n.j. company said full-year earnings be off cents share company removed catheter market company earned share food drug administration had raised questions device design analysts add third-party pressures reduce health costs continue bedevil companies bottom lines takeover speculation has been buoying stocks supply houses also ease says peter sidoti analyst drexel burnham lambert inc wanes 're going see stocks probably wane well says hospitals companies meanwhile are reporting improved earnings bolstered strong performances psychiatric hospitals national medical enterprises inc. los angeles reported net income cents share first quarter ended aug. up cents share year earlier humana inc. louisville ky. also reported favorable results net income cents fourth quarter ended aug. up cents year earlier analysts say handful hospital companies are still publicly traded are benefiting several trends most important hospital admission rates are stabilizing several years decline moreover companies have sold many smaller less-profitable hospitals have completed painful restructurings humana revenues example are being boosted large increases enrollments company health maintenance organizations says todd richter analyst dean witter reynolds shakeout publicly traded companies is over