real estate slump 's pushing price new york office space housing is also affecting city retail real estate market manhattan once-desirable store sites sit vacant newly constructed space has been slow fill retail real estate brokers say tenants are reluctant sign leases uncertainty local economy turmoil own industries belief rents have not yet hit bottom is unbelievable amount space available says faith consolo senior vice president garrick-aug associates store leasing inc are about stores rent up more typical range further confuses retailers says wonder sign lease prices are still coming down is wrong time open store is going be space door addition ms. consolo says tenants usually negotiate pay rents are about one-quarter lower landlords initial asking price handful hot retail locations such 57th street madison fifth avenue areas have been able sustain see astronomical rents neighborhoods rents have merely hit plateau average manhattan retail rents have dropped % % past months alone experts say follows more subtle decline prior months manhattan rents had run rapidly same factors limiting demand office space have affected retailing businesses contract depart number employees use retail services shrinks says edward a. friedman senior vice president helmsley spear inc says financial problems plaguing electronics fur furniture companies key categories local retail economy have further deflated market hardest hit are calls secondary sites primarily serve neighborhood residents locations mr. friedman says retailers are increasingly cautious about expanding rents have remained steady cases have declined weakness restaurant industry is leaving retail space vacant exacerbates problem landlords is also comfort landlords small new york retailers future larger department stores anchor retail neighborhoods are doubt hooker corp. parent bonwit teller b. altman is mired bankruptcy proceedings bloomingdale is sale owner campeau corp trend lower rents seem surprising given communities new york are bemoaning loss favorite local businesses high rents recent softening retailers 's still been too big jump rental rates late 1970s leases were signed certainly recent drop prices does n't mean manhattan comes cheap new york retail rents still run well going rate other u.s. cities madison fifth avenues east 57th street command rents up square foot is not uncommon thriving 34th street area offers rents about square foot do up-and-coming locations lower fifth avenue contrast rentals best retail locations boston san francisco chicago rarely top square foot rents beverly hills rodeo drive generally do n't exceed about square foot new york stock exchange said securities begin trading week precision castparts corp. portland ore. begin trading symbol pcp makes investment castings has traded over-the-counter royal bank scotland group plc edinburgh scotland financial services company list american depositary shares representing preferred shares symbol rbspr continue trade international stock exchange london american stock exchange listed shares companies aim telephones inc. parsippany n.j. telecommunications equipment supply company started trading symbol aim had traded over-the-counter columbia laboratories inc. miami began trading symbol cob pharmaceuticals maker had traded over-the-counter national market system nasdaq over-the-counter market listed shares company employee benefit plans inc. minneapolis health-care services company was listed symbol ebpi