nothing stirred soul ronald reagan disciples as much crusade aid nicaragua contra rebels dream building space-based defense shield knock soviet nuclear missiles yet mr. reagan preferred successor president bush cherished national-security causes are withering vine surprisingly little more whimper protest is being heard even reaganauts once breathed fire supporting contras strategic defense initiative programs have arthritis says rep. henry hyde conservative republican illinois yet asserts look around say are leaders is going carry water is n't surprising president bush has n't led crusade pump contras sdi nominally supports programs mr. bush has n't been passionate champion cause mr. reagan was 's surprising is is n't more conservative outcry bush administration lets programs slip national-priority list combination factors weariness conservatives decline perception soviet threat preoccupation other issues seem explain strange tranquility though conservative republicans have championed contras sdi are reluctant attack republican president failing do more reluctance be receding want complain want say something 're going gets worse says rep. dan burton indiana republican has been staunch contra backer 's kicking father pants hate do 's father mr. burton says conservatives unhappiness mr. bush cautious handling recent unsuccessful coup panama make more willing speak course president bush congress has actually abandoned contras sdi mr. bush has struck deal congressional leaders provide nonlethal aid contras nicaragua holds national elections february administration has dropped effort win military aid rebels administration deal congress gives several congressional committees right cut even humanitarian aid month committees are likely let aid continue february most analysts think little prospect contras be significant fighting force u.s. arms february election future form be murky best instead focusing contras mr. bush has switched urging members congress most recently white house meeting yesterday approve financing election campaign political opponents nicaragua sandinista government administration continues support sdi star wars recently lobbied persuade senate restore funds planned cut program just last week defense secretary dick cheney gave strong speech listing compelling reasons push ahead sdi saying urge president bush veto defense bill inadequate funding program strong pitch mr. cheney be too little too late prevent damage sdi house has already voted deep cut funding end program backers be hard pressed head reduction spending next year defense secretary is speaking president bush has n't launched high-visibility campaign drum support president reagan did administration also acknowledges is n't pursuing mr. reagan original vision impenetrable shield protecting whole u.s. rather more modest version more ominous sdi supporters bush administration appears have tacitly accepted new arms-control proposal soviet union spells long-term trouble star wars soviets have agreed complete treaty cutting strategic weapons including restrictions space-based defenses soviets also are insisting reserve right withdraw completed strategic-arms treaty later u.s. does sdi testing deployment soviets think violates existing anti-ballistic-missile treaty be hard road persuade congress approve money sdi plans lawmakers fear plans scuttle completed treaty result frank gaffney former reagan pentagon aide now heads center security policy charges administration professions continued commitment development deployment sdi program strain credulity still proponents be shying away more drumbeating sense political tides have turned arming nicaraguan rebels boosting spending sdi particularly public perceives soviet threat is declining mikhail gorbachev fact communism seems be beating global retreat conservatives simply be so pleased anti-communist philosophy is prevailing do n't have fire moment push controversial programs short is most hard-bitten not get too sour mood communism collapsing says mitchell daniels former reagan white house aide now is president hudson institute activists are toiling raise profile causes say n't make much headway lack willing leaders position turn tide longtime champion programs congress republican whip newt gingrich georgia is distracted questions ethics conservatives note other conservative champions wyoming republican sen. malcolm wallop longtime sdi advocate do n't have clout bush white house enjoyed president reagan though proponents say contra sdi cause be pushed much further more presidential support be wind sails program chief executive has be blowing sails says rep. burton causes rep. hyde muse alternate way drum more enthusiasm like see is is reagan take hustings regenerate enthusiasm sdi congressman says