sun myung moon korean evangelist-industrialist founded unification church remains mystery man multimillion-dollar political publishing operation based country catering american right be less there meets eye mr. moon planned convert millions americans unique brand christianity plays role old testament-style temporal political messiah then make u.s. part unified international theocracy original strategy brilliant innovation spreading religion was create new economic enterprises time wanted extend fund various religious missions tax-exempt airport street-corner solicitations were intended only provide start-up funds more stable industries were build economically viable infrastructure moon movement north america had japan south korea then move movement europe was not be 1970s early 1980s spokesmen unification church opponents anticult movement gave wildly exaggerated membership figures legacy lives is still common read press church has more full-time american members associates estimates have gone as high members internal church documents clearly show publicity-seeking heights organized spectacular yankee stadium bicentennial rally actually were only full-time unification church members u.s. mr. moon support watergate-beleaguered richard nixon koreagate scandal prison sentence income-tax evasion did not help church recruitment efforts defections burnouts abduction deprogrammings kept member turnover high membership number has even kept close size is result graying church many enthusiastic young moonies nixon era remained faithful father moon are now parents producing new members procreation rather conversion reputed wealth unification church is matter contention while 1970s seemed mr. moon was spending spree such purchases former new yorker hotel adjacent manhattan center conglomerate branches alaska massachusetts virginia louisiana former christian brothers monastery seagram family mansion picturesquely situated hudson river shares banks washington uruguay motion picture production company newspapers such washington times new york city tribune originally news world successful spanish-language noticias mundo yet purchases be misleading most were obtained huge inputs church money south korea japan minimum cash downpayments sizable mortgages teams young fund-raisers selling flowers peanuts begging outright traffic intersections brought somewhere year mid-to-late 1970s revenues were pittance compared costs mr. moon lavish international conferences speaking tours assorted land buys only factories japan korea employing followers subsistence wages producing everything rifles ginseng expensive marble vases kept money flowing westward virginia commonwealth university sociologist david bromley more other researcher has delved complex world unificationist finances has concluded profitable operations u.s. have been exceptions rather rule likewise journalists john burgess michael isikoff washington post have estimated least was transferred japan u.s. deal church annual operating losses country mr. moon english-language u.s. newspapers illustrate scope financial drain start-up costs washington times alone were close total amount lost journalistic black hole was estimated then moon organization has inaugurated pair high-quality glossy opinion magazines world i insight are further drain insiders say not even editors know sure much show-piece publications newspapers have cost mr. moon many american church-owned businesses such factory build fishing vessels are defunct components american church had budgets cut half last year again year relatively small academic conferences have attracted conservative guests press scrutiny recent years are much more narrowly targeted austere thousand-person get-togethers fancy digs exotic locales years past attended several dual role presenter research findings as well investigator hosts mr. moon paragon house eventually even published co-edited books religion politics according veteran watchers unificationist affairs such dr. j. gordon melton director institute study american religion almost operations are being drastically reduced mr. moon now concentrates more developing empire far east everything moonie senior consultant unification church recently told interview is going back korea japan europe had proved even less hospitable north america european politicians were less reluctant have governments investigate harass new religions so mr. moon is retreat refocusing far east south korea japan continue be profitable moon tong'il industry conglomerate is now investing heavily china church accountants have high hopes expanding attracting converts even wake bloody massacre tiananmen square panda motors is such investment according senior consultants church mr. moon has successfully negotiated joint venture chinese government build automobile-parts plant guangdong province area china substantial korean minority mr. moon has agreed put year years keep profits china return has government blessing build churches spread unificationism country respectability ties intellectuals opinion-makers publications conferences bring really are salvage not rev. moon original final goals ones have settle mr. shupe is co-author david g. bromley moonies america cult church crusade strange gods great american cult scare