surprise resignations top economic government officials heaped more uncertainty london financial markets already have been laboring worries britain ailing economy last thing markets like is uncertainty said ian harwood chief economist s.g. warburg co. resignations chancellor exchequer nigel lawson chief economic adviser sir alan walters think see share prices go sterling now is something cloud pound immediately began take buffetting resignations were announced late new york trading sterling stood down late wednesday british economy is hardly picture health days % base interest rates are highest years % annual inflation rate is far highest european community unions are pressing demands wage increases more % general belief economic growth next year be less % increasingly financial markets are reflecting gloom financial times 100-share index has dropped % high sept. yesterday even resignations were announced index dove points close are expecting recession says donald franklin chief economist schroders investment bank only question is deep is going be outlook corporate earnings is fairly bleak 's quite likely 're going get repeats mid-october market shocks red ink already has begun flow wake u.s.-u.k. market breaks oct. oct. london-based lit holdings largest financer traders chicago options futures markets said yesterday incur second-half loss result market plunge company also omit second-half dividend did n't specify size company insiders estimated loss approach equivalent christopher castleman lit chief executive said interview loss stemmed default options traders had bet price rise ual corp. shares oct. price plummeted proposed leveraged buy-out airline fell through lit holdings shares plummeted pence close pence cents % drop london stock exchange denizens london financial district are cushioning heavy blows lot more customers are staying p.m. closing time says christopher brown managing director corney barrow restaurants ltd. runs tony wine bars district 's strong sense martini set 's more bad news come asserts roger yates chief investment officer morgan grenfell asset management people stock market were very much thatcher children very young wealthy optimists now 's dawning be non-wealthy malaise has created nostalgic longing uncomplicated days mid-1980s rash securities-firm mergers eve industry deregulation people come saying like be back were few years ago more collegial atmosphere less tension says stephen waterhouse managing director hanover partners ltd. financial district head-hunting firm trading losses mid-october market jolts here many people be lucky have jobs executives predict industry currently employs people london has shed jobs past years see cuts least % more says head london office major u.s. firm mergers acquisitions market has been saving grace industry uncertainties are beginning mount even there intra-european takeovers are expected continue brisk pace investment bankers say stock market uncertainties u.s. cause many european companies mark time bidding american companies hope share prices come prices states go industrial buyers europe have opportunity getting reasonable prices u.s. says francois von hurter chief continential m&a credit suisse first boston ltd adds everybody sister have opened m&a shops 's difficult see 's going be enough business go firms get lion share others are going be lot disappointments promises big money 's been paid people adds up cold winter here says allen d. wheat head trading bankers trust co. people are just plain scared person is past worrying london blues is christopher hartley last summer chucked 10-year career london stockbroker headed mountains did n't stop got jackson hole wyo 'm glad be said 32-year-old mr. hartley phone interview percentage day spent twiddling thumbs got greater work day kept getting longer am doing jackson hole not great deal wife stay skiing season money runs comes first london here 've never heard anybody blow car horn anger