bond corp holdings ltd. posted loss fiscal australian dollars largest australian corporate history loss compared year-earlier profit preliminary unaudited results reported friday bond corp. also posted operating loss year ended june compared operating profit year earlier operating revenue rose % net interest bill jumped % bond corp. has interests brewing media communications natural resources property much bond corp. losses stemmed one-time write-downs value bond corp. assets units results included write-off future income-tax benefits provision loss sale stake % lonrho plc however bond corp. said tax benefits remain available be used later earnings interest tax brewing dived % company said general financial performance u.s. brewing operations g. heileman brewing co. was disappointing has been reflected results bond corp. shares closed friday news results australian cents share up australian cent staggering losses cap tumultuous year alan bond flagship bond corp only year ago chairman bond corp. controls % company appeared be building war chest attack big companies now bond corp. has agreed sell least australian brewing assets has sold billions dollars other assets has more block tv interview sunday mr. bond said 've taken big loss 've taken chin 're there 're going stay business bond corp. signaled focus building domestic international media communications businesses said look opportunities brewing property energy resources extent consistent dominant objective manageable debt-to-assets ratios result ultimately be very different group size structure bond corp. directors said statement analysts contend total writeoffs have been much greater bond corp. auditors cited list several assets deals is uncertainty regarding current value potential impact firm bond corp. said acknowledged losses mean net asset backing is red tune australian cents share positive asset backing share year ago still directors said having fully considered aspects company state affairs future cash flows directors confirm absolutely company is solvent indeed note results directors said true worth group assets were taken account instead using book values negative net asset backing share turn substantial positive one