dust settling failed coup attempt panama many lingering questions bush administration ponder is is national security council staff big enough does have enough clout do job coordinating foreign policy president bush national security adviser lt. gen. brent scowcroft came office january intent making nsc staff leaner more disciplined had been reagan administration gen. scowcroft was member tower commission investigated iran-contra affair was all too aware large inadequately supervised nsc staff had spun control nearly wrecked president reagan second term so following style pursued president ford national security adviser recommendations tower commission gen. scowcroft has pruned nsc staff tried ensure sticks assigned tasks namely gathering views state department pentagon intelligence community serving honest broker distilling information president then making sure presidential decisions are carried out tower commission specifically said nsc staff be small warned letting energetic self-starters lt. col. oliver north strike own rather leaving day-to-day execution policies state department pentagon central intelligence agency however panama episode has raised questions nsc staff is sufficiently big diverse powerful coordinate u.s. policy tough issues coup attempt aftermath nsc staffers were stretched very thin says senior administration official 's very small shop gen. scowcroft does n't plan increase staff right now is weighing possibility official adds nsc staff does n't have horsepower believe is required have effective interagency process says frank gaffney former pentagon aide now runs center security policy conservative washington think-tank problem administration think is design has greatly diminished physical sense procedural sense role nsc national security council was established policy makers sensed need increasingly complex world formal system white house make sure communications flowed smoothly president state department pentagon intelligence agencies law council includes president vice president secretaries state defense practice director central intelligence chairman joint chiefs staff also serve unofficial members size shape role nsc staff have been left president national security adviser decide task is washington perennial problems bush white house size nsc staff professional officers is administration officials say administration officials insist size staff was n't problem panama crisis clear problem coup attempt was nsc staffer most experienced latin america everett briggs was gone had just resigned least part feud assistant secretary state bernard aronson administration policy panama support nicaragua contra rebels absence mr. briggs underscored possible inadequacy current nsc staff gen. scowcroft deputy robert gates are experts u.s.-soviet affairs gen. scowcroft is particularly well-versed arms control mr. gates has spent years studying soviet politics society have become confidants president bush has extensive background latin america middle east asia areas role nsc staffers therefore have become more important gen. scowcroft knows as well anyone biggest dangers faces is nsc staffers working relative anonymity take policy-making operational tasks are best left bigger more experienced state department pentagon bureaus just previous nsc adviser has gen. scowcroft now have mull point nsc staff becomes too lean too restrained