metal marble lobby centrust bank headquarters is grander average savings loan thing is old master wall samuel anointing david big baroque canvas painted mattia preti 17th-century neapolitan moment however painting is nagging reminder problems have engulfed centrust flamboyant chairman chief executive david l. paul international buying spree began barely years ago mr. paul amassed collection pre-18th-century works including preti total cost midnight oct. paintings were supposed have been sold off orders florida comptroller office regulates state s&ls centrust did n't meet deadline collection was heart grandiose plan mr. paul had art was do double duty investment centrust decoration s&l new office tower designed i.m. pei rub is was plucked funds federally insured institution even centrust was losing money hand fist mr. paul had right buy art s&l first place is n't comptroller permissible list seeking special dispensation did not do paintings were grace walls centrust actually ended up hanging chairman estate la gorce isle miami beach last spring comptroller office called halt mr. paul fling giving months sell paintings acquisitions officials said letter mr. paul were unsafe unsound unauthorized so far mr. paul has unloaded masterpieces n't say comptroller office says is monitoring situation agency remove mr. paul has current intention do 's not selling chevrolets mr. paul says takes drag goldbanded st. moritz cigarette last months has established quality collection 's fire sale here mr. paul characteristic hauteur 50-year-old chain-smoking dynamo is finding getting centrust florida largest thrift institution riskiest investments is much tougher getting had been paintings are just part picture mr. paul has pared junk-bond portfolio less april high-yield debt market has plummeted divesting is left is required thrift institutions july new federal s&l bailout law well prove difficult centrust has other problems late last week federal regulators ordered thrift institution stop paying dividends preferred stock move suggests deep concern institution mr. paul has plan bring selling centrust branches has yet be approved regulators is mr. paul art venture however has drawn most attention investors regulators not mention galleries world embittered shareholders are suing say chairman collection epitomize excesses speculation set national s&l crisis centrust shares have fallen sharply price high close yesterday gallery directors meanwhile say mr. paul others ilk have left indelible mark art world not better collectors do n't say 's van gogh anymore laments harry brooks president wildenstein co. new york gallery say johnny payson got so certainly is n't too much mine great collectors depended such paul mellon norton simon have stopped buying new buyers are brilliant men made money stock market takeovers rushed collecting mr. payson art dealer collector sold vincent van gogh irises sotheby auction november australian businessman alan bond trouble is mr. bond has yet pay up does sotheby has painting lock key mr. paul moved in art market let be known virtually piece was too costly be considered centrust established reputation freespender january last year sotheby auction linda gerald guterman collection new york there first shopping trips mr. paul picked several paintings stunning prices paid instance still life jan jansz. den uyl was expected fetch perhaps price paid was record artist % items offered guterman auction were sold average price rest were withdrawn lack acceptable bids afterward mr. paul is said mr. guterman have phoned mr. guterman new york developer selling collection gloated says stole recalls mr. guterman tells want see paintings have come house florida mr. paul denies phoning gloating 's just not true says mr. paul quickly became more aggressive collecting help george wachter sotheby expert old masters met exhibition guterman items mr. wachter became principal adviser searched galleries london paris monaco according dealer mr. wachter had penchant introducing mr. paul phrase buy anything nicholas hall president colnaghi u.s.a. ltd. gallery new york sold mr. paul abraham sarah wilderness giovanni battista tiepolo mr. hall says mr. paul was known spend lot money people were interested seeing was recognized route was sotheby particularly george wachter mr. paul thus developed close symbiotic relationship sotheby mr. paul was eager assemble collection headquarters centrust has been moving greater part year sotheby auction house founded london now umbrella sotheby holdings inc. was hoping stir interest old masters strove build u.s. business european dealers continued dominate action old masters sotheby north america had lately been touting country several months was optimism around last october mr. paul paid centrust cash commission portrait man mars painting attributed flemish artist peter paul rubens was purchased privately sotheby not auction march just months campaign mr. paul was named art antiques magazine top individual collectors u.s unknown quantity most art world paul is stranger lavish spending magazine said noting does n't stop paint canvas also spends big art eat recently bid paris charity auction dinner cooked world great chefs final party cost closer mr. paul says was n't high art collection have come rival medicis had florida comptroller office not got wind mr. paul aesthetic adventure letter dated march shared reporters alex hager chief thrift-institution bureau comptroller office expressed puzzlement s&l be so profligate had reported losses more preceding quarters state gave centrust days sell rubens comptroller office eventually extended deadline months broadened demands ordering book value collection be reduced other words get rid pictures state obliquely noted unsafe banking practices are grounds removing officer director closed admonition mr. paul govern accordingly state agency was particularly vexed learn rubens half-dozen other paintings listed bank furniture fixtures were actually hanging chairman house mr. paul says point did indeed have paintings home rest were storage sotheby explains was merely storing paintings home display special dehumidified environment required safekeeping centrust new building was ready still incident was embarrassing came heels number local newspaper articles suggesting mr. paul has benefited handsomely association centrust instance got loan s&l negotiated below-market rate owns % centrust shares adding mr. paul problems dealers vested interests insist relying rather too heavily sotheby advice paid much too much several pieces centrust collection lavished rubens example was record price artist maybe twice value given dispute scholars provenance david tunick president david tunick inc. new york gallery says scholars question authenticity rubens have been painted instead rubens associate feeling many experts commercial side is price paid time was excessive event mr. tunick says sounds rubens got absolutely taken cleaners victor wiener executive director appraisers association america agrees mr. paul paid very dearly rubens adds getting rid time soon similar sum be quite feat 's not credibility rubens someday be worth be sold amount tomorrow remains be seen still predicting is tricky 'm forever dumbfounded see making high prices jonathan h. kress son painting former owner mrs. rush kress dismisses price talk sour grapes dealers contemptuous purchase price says were interested buying rubens lost out mr. paul part defends rubens price saying lot experts have never seen thing most were n't even born last time painting was displayed publicly says art prices are skyrocketing good deal legerdemain is involved compiling statistics sales salomon brothers inc. investment-banking firm annual tally investment returns reported old masters appreciated % year ended june greatest return assets tracked impressionist modern paintings not tracked salomon are ranked even higher % sotheby salomon moreover gets data art appreciation sotheby prices go up clients mr. paul thrall percentages omit consideration many paintings go begging auction art indexes track winners not losers art has fallen sharply value is rarely put sale also sotheby auctions old masters roughly one-third one-fifth is offered does n't sell price 's not are n't bids bids do n't meet minimum reserve prices set sellers january preti painting now hangs centrust was expected bring more auction mr. paul came along mr. hall colnaghi gallery says have been impossible price anyone ask preti years ago vantage point is n't mr. paul customer too overpaid work gargantuan painting artist is not household word painting is feet wide feet high rather just shows things have changed mr. paul boasts spotted bargains old masters just took upward turn went up % last year do again year declares were sleeper everybody was buying monets sotheby vice president diana levitt says auction house has been assisting mr. paul selling paintings sotheby chief rivals art world private art dealers n't be happy hear adds number artworks have already been sold substantial profit mr. paul claims have sold paintings more % profit is n't % claim is n't documented furthermore denies relied too heavily sotheby mr. wachter mr. paul says had not advisers never bid impulsively had counsel curators most reputable museums world says expects sell collection including controversial rubens carefully prudently just was put together art-world parlance mr. paul holdings are burnt is is being compelled put market too soon has already gotten offers are less paid art works few years argue has been natural appreciation says susan theran publisher leonard annual price index art auctions quick turnover artwork is pawning jewelry end up % people hold out try get bargain sotheby defends mr. paul matter mr. wachter says mr. paul was quick study worked intensely bought best pictures available moment occasion paid high price mr. wachter concedes says bid less dropped out were dealers then have marked paintings resell profit collectors naomi bernhard levinson fine-arts appraiser bernhard associates san francisco considers definite conflict interest auction house advise client purchases set price estimates paintings be purchased sotheby says is wearing hats n't see be conflict interest says sotheby ms. levitt estimates are based previous price similar works sold auction current market conditions are not affected knowledge potential buyer be frequently clients express interest paintings do n't end up bidding adds so do n't know potential buyer be mr. paul selling paintings is seeking least % return bank investment prove venture was sound mr. paul says has feelers much globe potential buyers as far away japan italy have examined collection pressure centrust sell dealers collectors have been trying get paintings bargain-basement prices so far mr. paul advisers are holding fast dealer martin zimet french co. new york says have loved buy jan davids heem painting bank tried steal picture buy attractively sotheby n't do were protecting interests meanwhile mr. paul centrust executives are getting squeamish opulence mr. paul has been characterized great gatsby something complains karen e. brinkman executive vice president centrust media says have distorted personal life mr. paul nods agreement do n't think have life style is frankly so flamboyant says just moment is interrupted office servant tuxedo pours coffee silver cup china dabs brim linen mr. paul says ceiling executive suite is gold-leaf inlay offices are done hardwood oriental rugs leatherbound books course rubens implores splendor be played do n't say 's gold ceiling just say offices are tastefully appointed says otherwise regulators take decadence nowadays everything 's got be pristine figures do n't include taxes transaction costs