tug war warner communications inc. sony corp. movie producers peter guber jon peters has exploded legal battle prove embarrassing setback sony plans enter u.s. movie business friday weeks fruitless settlement talks warner filed suit los angeles superior court sony guber peters entertainment co. charging sony inducing producers breach five-year contract warner suit seeks damages injunction barring messrs. guber peters taking top management posts columbia pictures entertainment inc previously reported sony has agreed pay acquire columbia separately has agreed pay guber peters entertainment obtain services co-chief executives sony guber peters promptly countersued charging warner attempting interfere sony acquisition companies falsely asserting guber peters agreement warner prevents accepting senior management posts columbia issue lawsuits is contract signed last march messrs. guber peters requires make movies exclusively warner next years sony messrs. guber peters maintain contract does n't prohibit taking executive post studio moreover assert producers have oral agreeement warner bros. studio executives gives right terminate producer relationship event were given chose accept opportunity become senior executives motion picture studio according countersuit warner part maintains written agreement prevents messrs. guber peters doing anything else motion picture business warner says suit sony has unethically illegally sought steal services guber peters injure warner major competitor columbia moreover warner says sony enticed producers unprecedented financial rewards breach binding contractual commitments warner warner also names suit producers sony corp. america vice chairman michael schulof walter yetnikoff head sony cbs records unit sony responded countersuit charging warner chief executive steven j. ross warner bros. unit chairman robert daly president terry semel embarking unlawful scheme interfere disrupt sony acquisitions warner is process being acquired time warner inc. is attempting sabotage sony efforts part plan scheme dominate control entertainment business countersuit sony guber peters adds warner also appears be trying embarrass sony accusing japanese company u.s executives messrs. schulof yetnikoff dishonorable dealings suit warner says mr. ross warned sony mr. schulof sept. dinner washington guber peters mind u.s. is essential corporations honor written contracts do not induce breach contracts others sony went ahead next day anyway executed own five-year agreement producers agreed buy company suit adds moreover suit adds sony initially said n't buy guber peters warner contract was settled tuesday settlement was n't reached sony publicly announced acquire guber peters sony has thus knowingly willfully warner protests induced guber peters repudiate contract warner suit says warner decision file suit wake failure reach settlement sony did n't surprise executives rival studios say warner is only protecting own interests outcome legal battle add redefine contractual relationships hollywood unwritten rule has often been contracts were made be broken warner case studio obviously regards relationship guber peters crucial factor warner recent success central part future plans warner has relied heavily find produce movies studio including summer hit batman warner says suit guber peters claim have generated one-half dollars profits warner combined projects claim warner does n't dispute warner says is currently financing new projects being developed producers earlier agreement warner producers were allowed make movies elsewhere example made hit rainman communications co warner signed new agreement march terms specifically prohibited serving producers executive producers movies other studio sony guber peters executives say countersuit however new contract eliminated language barring serving other capacity motion picture business appear be relying heavily alleged oral agreement producers claim have warner let written contract event actual executive post company became available countersuit say previous occasions once considered post columbia once messrs. guber peters tried buy stake warner was prepared release contract countersuit also charges warner making oral agreement falsely induce new written contract moreover say warner is trying cheat unique business opportunity fulfilment long-term dream run own studio entertainment industry executives say new contract was signed guber peters efforts take mgm failed warner argue court producers willingness sign new long-term contract signaled end search movie studio mr. ross team warner appear view move producers sony personal betrayal years support friendship warner has been nurturing relationship guber peters long recent success warner suit says success suit adds is due large measure trust confidence warner has reposed producers even early years relationship creative partnership was not particularly profitable warner warner executives are highest paid entertainment industry also charges sony induced producers breach warner contract offering most lucrative expensive package financial inducements film industry including annual salary deferred compensation as much % columbia cash flow as much % future appreciation columbia market value producers also stand get more combined % stake guber peters entertainment sony offer company countersuit messrs. guber peters say seek damages initially warner seek higher amount later determining extent damages