switzerland most famous raider says is n't werner k. rey believes fortunes are made being friendly little more decade being friendly same time rocking staid swiss business community u.s.-style wheeling dealing 46-year-old mr. rey has grown modest banker billionaire achieved part uncanny talent getting foot peacefully door established european companies latest coup september masterminding swiss-franc merger adia s.a. world second-largest temporary employment agency inspectorate international s.a. rey-controlled product-inspection company shareholders approve merger general meetings companies late november approval is almost certain mr. rey friendly adia management are control transaction mr. rey estimates value % stake new company be held omni holding ag be swiss francs be return original investment swiss francs swiss francs mr. rey bought controlling stake inspectorate swiss francs building little-known engineering company european u.s. acquisitions like succeed says mr. rey recent morning working home also likes home is estate green meadows opening lake geneva low-slung house rooms overlook water offer view french alps corner reception room is delicate antique desk piled high dossiers is small renoir wall zurich-based magazine bilanz lists mr. rey having fortune swiss francs writes bilanz one switzerland ever came so far so fast was simply first country realize treasures were just lying waiting be picked short rey found companies weak earnings rich assets however swiss financial press general as well many analysts have had hard time making minds mr. rey un-swiss ways switzerland most prestigious newspaper neue zuercher zeitung mr. rey seems destined remain former bally raider image has proved hard overcome upstart eyes switzerland establishment mr. rey laid foundations present-day prominence unheard-of raid bally country traditional shoemaker sitting banker luncheon london was working financial consultant learned large packet bally shares was sale looking bally hardly believe saw company enormous real-estate holdings major european cities market capitalization swiss francs had employees investing swiss francs earned financial transactions swiss francs parents wife mr. rey acquired % bally shares such tactics were alien switzerland still are n't common share restrictions companies are allowed maintain eventually mr. rey was forced sell bally shares weapons maker oerlikon-buehrle holding ag establishment pressure grew hostile move swiss old boys network mr. rey made swiss francs sale bally was not unfriendly takeover insists buying willing shareholders makes unfriendly takeover impossible mr. rey contends bought willing shareholders nevertheless mr. rey has been very careful then make sure moves are welcome has worked shed raider image career industrialist began acquisition swiss metals works selve based thun nonferrous metals business undermined switzerland tough foreign competition high domestic costs looked dull undertaking mr. rey brought merger next few years country major producers increased efficiency has perked industry years later machinery producer ateliers de constructions mecaniques de vevey s.a. was become part rey empire once again company future looked less rosy restructuring new management profits began rolling major boost mr. rey respectability swiss came sold % phibro bank conservative swiss cantonal banks renamed swiss cantobank are using expand abroad mr. rey bested leading publishing houses take switzerland jean frey ag major producer magazines newspapers recent acquisition % winterthur-based machinery manufacturer gebrueder sulzer ag mr. rey has enjoyed status white knight sulzer preferred financier tito tettamanti secretive raid company stock had led bitter battle meanwhile such strategic investments have mounted merchant-banking arm mr. rey omni holding has been busily buying selling dozens companies often financial corporate restructuring today branch mr. rey empire runs name omnicorp offering services handles mergers acquisitions placement securities real estate portfolio are such diverse companies united kingdom-based air europe checkrobot inc. u.s. company makes supermarket checkout machines norment industries u.s. manufacturer securities systems com systems inc. u.s. regional telephone company major real-estate projects u.s. europe financial analysts reading omni accounts is tough challenge companies move says helga kern kk swiss investment financial analysts note mr. rey is attracted companies are undervalued basis real-estate interests august omni unexpectedly bought inspectorate % stake harpener ag west germany land-rich company internal transaction rey empire puzzled harpener small shareholders analysts say makes sense inspectorate-adia focus main businesses product inspection temporary help mr. rey says move is yet example conservatism explains companies real estate give security real estate be used points guarantees bank loans corporate development says wants influence not manage companies do n't want be financier alan bond other australians do n't want companies be built person want stand alone