former democratic fund-raiser thomas m. gaubert savings loan was wrested control federal thrift regulators has been granted court permission sue regulators ruling fifth u.s. circuit court appeals new orleans mr. gaubert received go-ahead pursue claim federal home loan bank board federal home loan bank dallas losses suffered bank board closed independent american savings association irving texas mr. gaubert was chairman majority stockholder independent american had relinquished control exchange federal regulators agreement drop inquiry activities savings loan part agreement mr. gaubert contributed real estate valued assets independent american control federal regulators independent american net worth dropped negative wiping value mr. gaubert real estate contribution stock institution mr. gaubert suit recover damages was dismissed last year u.s. district judge robert maloney dallas federal tort claims act offers broad protection actions federal agencies employees earlier week fifth circuit appellate panel upheld judge maloney dismissal mr. gaubert claim shareholder said judge reconsider mr. gaubert claim loss property depend was express implied promise federal officials not negligently cause deterioration independent american court wrote mr. gaubert lawyer abbe david lowell washington d.c. says impact ruling other cases involving thrift takeovers depend degree similarity facts do n't know affect institution mr. lowell says does establish very clear precedent suing fhlbb was none before maitre'd claims suit restaurant fired was pregnant suit filed state court manhattan american civil liberties union is representing former maitre 'd chic odeon restaurant suit seeks compensatory punitive damages alleges firing marcia trees levine violated new york state human-rights law other things law prohibits discrimination basis sex pregnancy suit alleges ms. levine was fired refused accept lower paying less visible job reaching sixth month pregnancy ms. levine told employer was pregnant february month later suit says restaurant manager told ms. levine be demoted assistant felt customers be uncomfortable pregnant maitre 'd kary moss attorney aclu women rights project said wanted svelte-looking woman pregnant woman is not svelte told do n't hire fat people do n't hire cripples pregnant women are fat ms. moss said ms. levine secretly taped many conversations bosses odeon told was being fired maitre 'd was pregnant paul h. aloe attorney odeon owner keith mcnally denied allegations said ms. levine had never been fired had stopped working restaurant odeon made written offer marcia levine july return work maitre 'd same pay same hours back pay accrued said mr. aloe said odeon has policy hiring pregnant people lawyers texas biggest bank-fraud case want face retrial lawyers representing defendants case say clients no longer afford services trial case lasted months ended september hung jury defendants were indicted years ago charges conspired defraud thrifts more complicated scheme inflate price land condominium construction interstate east dallas defense lawyers are solo practitioners say n't afford put law practices hold seven-month trial lawyers say continue represent clients government pays tab court-appointed lawyers assistant u.s. attorney terry hart dallas says government oppose efforts bring new defense team delay retrial federal judge alcee hastings florida facing impeachment received unanticipated boost yesterday sen. arlen specter r. pa urged acquittal judge brief circulated senate colleagues closed-door deliberations other things brief cited insufficient evidence sen. specter was vice chairman impeachment trial committee heard evidence hastings case last summer former prosecutor member senate judiciary committee sen. specter is expected exercise influence senate votes impeachment today richmond resignations partners richmond va. firm browder russell morris butcher announced are resigning partners james w. morris philip b. morris robert m. white ann adams webster jacqueline g. epps are opening boutique richmond concentrate corporate defense litigation particularly product liability cases sixth partner john h. obrion jr. is joining cowan owen smaller firm richmond law firm notes nixon hargrave devans doyle based rochester n.y. has opened office buffalo n.y mayer brown platt chicago added partners houston office eddy j. roger jr. jeff c. dodd copyright specialist neil boorstyn writes monthly copyright law journal newsletter is joining mccutchen doyle brown enersen