unexpectedly sharp widening u.s. trade gap august dragged dollar lower tuesday profit-taking short positions helped currency rebound close mixed major counterparts market kept careful tabs wall street gyrations shrugged modest downturn equities bid dollar well day lows soon release u.s. trade figures dollar plunged intraday low yen also declined mark did n't reach intraday low marks hours later unit stabilized midday new york time marks yen prompting unconfirmed rumors u.s. federal reserve had intervened blunt unit tumble dollar finished intraday highs dealers noted foreign exchange market initial bearish reaction u.s. trade figures was tempered later calmer reassessment data u.s. commerce department reported deficit august compared revised july deficit economists had expected gap august figure reflected % rise imports % drop exports marc m. goloven economist manufacturers hanover trust new york said figures appear indicate sadly deteriorating u.s. trade performance 's still enough positive news data justify buying dollars said u.s. trade gap canada has widened significantly trade deficit western europe japan continues narrow added manufactured goods exports are still rising dollar near-term path remains foggy according currencny analysts characterize market bewildering late new york trading yesterday dollar was quoted marks marks late monday yen yen late monday sterling was unchanged tokyo wednesday u.s. currency opened trading yen unchanged tuesday tokyo close later u.s. currency fell yen news reports san francisco earthquake analysts remain bullish point dollar continues be well bid key rate increases europe japan several weeks aggressive dollar sales world central banks traders estimate barrage sales topped 190-point plunge new york stock exchange note u.s. unit is trading upper end presumed target zones established group trading partners g-7 comprises west germany u.s. france u.k. italy canada japan so-called louvre accord was seen have set ranges marks marks yen yen say recent injection liquidity u.s. banking system has been modest do n't anticipate significant easing u.s. federal reserve fed arranged customer repurchase agreements tuesday second repurchase agreement days move injects capital system is seen effort reassure finanicial markets u.s. central bank is ready provide ample liquidity other analysts contend fed move loosen credit has n't been aggressive nevertheless sends clear signal least now fed has relaxed grip credit add fed has allowed key federal funds interest rate dip % levels just % last week federal funds rate is overnight lending rate banks charge other market participants said mark continues post most significant gains dollar commodity exchange new york gold current delivery settled ounce cents estimated volume was moderate ounces early trading hong kong wednesday gold was ounce