japanese firms push posh car showrooms japanese luxury-car makers are trying set strict design standards dealerships dealers are negotiating looser terms others decline deal nissan motor co. infiniti division likes insist dealer construct furnish building japanese style specifications include polished bronze sculpture center showroom tile bridge spanning stream flows building outside infiniti has down ashtrays says jay ferron partner j.d. power associates auto research firm toyota motor corp. lexus division also provides specifications only two-thirds lexus dealers are constructing new buildings according lexus specs are even coming up own novel designs louisville ky. example david peterson has built lexus dealership showroom second floor dealers have turned infiniti lexus franchises were unwilling unable meet design requirements lee seidman cleveland says infiniti was bear interiors least let retrofit existing building stream mr. seidman says turned lexus franchise part building was gorgeous very expensive head arguments infiniti offers dealers cash bonuses low-interest construction loans dictation device saga plays back lesson products don't have be first be winners 's lesson offered case study featured design exhibit dictaphone corp. was caught guard main competitor lanier office products japan introduced microcassette dictation recorder size standard cassette devices blocked patent protection following suit dictaphone decided go step further cut cassette half again length paperclip designers engineers dictaphone pitney bowes subsidiary had produced working model picocassette recorder however patent status lanier microcassette had changed permitting dictaphone develop own competitive micro system did marketing sales departments then urged abandonment pico project others said pico proceed were right dictaphone went ahead introduced pico has n't sold well date says emil jachmann dictaphone vice president has broken even shown small loss nevertheless device has been successful other ways helped dictaphone attract better engineers provided new technology other company products picocassette recorder also helped transform company reputation follower leading-edge innovator gave great pride see inventor microcassette japan look pico shake head say unbelievable says mr. jachmann dictaphone picocassette recorder is case studies triad design project sponsored design management institute boston harvard business school studies are exhibit harvard month travel chicago institute design university california berkeley rake progress means branching out day carl barrett mobile ala. was raking sycamore leaves rake kept riding piles harder tried push large piles closer came breaking rake straining back so mr. barrett then vice president alabama steamship association took steel-toothed garden rake taped underside leaf rake inches up crude device worked lower teeth gathered leaves pile higher harder teeth moved top pile now incorporated polypropylene rake four-inch prongs wonderbars also are supposed aid picking leaves customer donald blaggs mobile says barrett rake allowed do lawn hours hours less usual other rake makers have doubts richard mason president ames co. parkersburg w. va. says barrett rake makes sense be tough explain consumers john stoner marketing director true temper corp. subsidiary black decker says people do n't want move leaf pile either pick says start pulling fresh direction odds ends more stubbed toes bruised shins promises geste corp. goshen ind. designer bed support replace traditional frames tubular steel bedfellows roughly shape w are attached bottom box spring recessed position nearly half u.s. consumers say pay up % more packaging be recycled is biodegradable according survey commissioned michael peters group design consultant