robert mcduffie was got chance play starting lineup high school basketball team macon ga unfortunately mother had tickets recital itzhak perlman same night was adamant attending threw fit says mr. mcduffie had begun violin studies age perlman started playing did n't give damn basketball afterwards went home practiced hours today 's obvious brawny six-foot one-inch musician made right choice mr. mcduffie has rich full-bodied tone admirable rhythmic precision increasingly busy schedule 's currently midst 17-city u.s. tour yehudi menuhin warsaw sinfonia stops including charleston s.c oct. sarasota fla oct. tampa fla oct. miami oct. later season gives recital washington kennedy center appears soloist several major orchestras mr. mcduffie career has developed slower pace better known contemporaries late 1970s was part musical brat pack group budding virtuosos studied juilliard school noted pedagogue dorothy delay violin classmates included shlomo mintz protege isaac stern performed major orchestras still student cho-liang lin joined roster icm artists inc. age nadja salerno-sonnenberg launched career winning naumberg competition thought was hill recalls mr. mcduffie outgoing man pale blue eyes light southern drawl was n't ready career time young mcduffie first violin teacher was henrik schwarzenberger hungarian refugee taught macon public school system taught play gypsy jokes musician did n't learn count got juilliard studies conservatory pre-college division assistant legendary instructor ivan galamian switched college level miss delay mr. galamian longtime assistant ultimately rival think had prove says mr. mcduffie was always encouraging only put foot twice continues freshman year roommate was known party animal thought was n't getting practicing done violinist tells grandmotherly looking teacher put hands hips stomped foot said 've just got get expletive deleted there second incident took place mr. mcduffie gave ambitious student recital was feeling rather pleased miss delay requested come studio tape recital listened chausson poeme recalls said hear first note b-flat 's only note 's truly tune 's most important experience 've had teacher says taught listen now play orchestras musicians often compliment intonation was also juilliard mr. mcduffie discovered predilection conservative 20th-century american composers such david diamond samuel barber winning school competition performance latter violin concerto mr. mcduffie was invited play work composer was dying cancer barber was seated fireplace looking very pale recalls violinist performed work piano accompanist composer apartment did n't say much said was important 's not score 's beautiful coplandesque motif kill heard say first movement only time violin has is right end 's written score played way kind gigue-like yelled sweet sweet did over adds played very transparently tip bow conductor is sensitive enough bring orchestra volume point makes piece magical do n't know barber never told anybody else isaac stern recording 's very biting leaving juilliard mr. mcduffie has made smart moves controversial ones guest appearance nbc soap opera world scandalized musical elitists contrast 's won kudos espousal william schuman violin concerto recently recorded along leonard bernstein engaging serenade violin solo strings percussion mr. mcduffie sweet tone heartfelt lyricism rhythmic punch make ideal interpreter works aided fluid playing st. louis symphony leonard slatkin direction serenade really swings mr. schuman violin concerto sounds more mildly atonal rhapsody solo violin orchestral accompaniment meanders propulsive agitato fervente are ample rewards plaintive slow sections virtuoso fireworks soloist brass timpani avery fisher hall here mr. mcduffie was heard recently mr. menuhin warsaw sinfonia more conventional fare bruch overwrought violin concerto g minor performance was so effusive driven phrases rarely breathed 35-member sinfonia played adroitly big lush sound belied size plays mr. mcduffie finds satisfaction music something greater out there puts interview manhattan apartment shares wife camille literary publicist normal person did not write beethoven violin concerto declares even hear played badly 'm still humbled piece ever feel 've contributed way then hard work has been worth ms. jepson is free-lance music writer new york