david baltimore has just been named president rockefeller university already knows 's like go life nobel laureate appended name is currently experiencing 's like have phrase investigation scientific fraud also attached name nobel committee made first addition john dingell congressional committee created second dr. baltimore public faces have been view past few weeks was consideration succeed joshua lederberg head prestigious rockefeller research institution came light substantial number rockefeller faculty were upset even opposed dr. baltimore impending appointment were disturbed regarded dr. baltimore confrontational attitude dingell committee held hearings dispute lab notebooks researcher had co-authored scientific paper dr. baltimore readers columns the science police recall dr. baltimore was merely most well-known part dingell committee larger investigation touched mit tufts duke national institutes health elsewhere rep. dingell even managed enlist services secret service investigation baltimore paper insofar mr. dingell has special interest nih institutions receive funding rockefeller scientists were doubt discomfited dr. baltimore unflattering public opinion congressional patron behavior reminded dr. baltimore mccarthy era well be first time venerable rockefeller university has brushed up publicly intimidations now common american science john dingell demagogues david baltimore animal-rights activists do damage labs u.cal-davis meryl streep decries horrors chemistry talk shows jeremy rifkin files lawsuits federal court thwart biotech experiments dutch-elm-disease researcher gary strobel own colleagues montana state denounce violating epa rules scientists are mistaken still think anti-science movement country is n't concern david baltimore have somehow placated john dingell mr. dingell way has decreed nih investigation baltimore paper adding several previous investigations something other most scientists recognize truth is being sought here fortunately are signs increasing numbers scientists understand necessity speaking out david hubel nobel laureate harvard has taken lead defending research animals as has dr. michael debakey nasa defended vigorously successfully rifkin suit block galileo launch scientists need understand tend believe work is primarly establishing new knowledge doing good today is also power media-linked world scientists earn wide praise even nobels work also attract attention people wish gain control content funding goals work david baltimore next target decides is better stand up forces fellow scientists do well recognize is fundamentally stake offer public support