comments federal reserve board chairman alan greenspan lent support dollar u.s. unit ended yesterday lower most major currencies foreign-exchange dealers noted impact chairman remarks was slight warned currency remains sensitive developments wall street traders said mr. greenspan statements are ordinarily cautious was especially careful avoid jarring proclamations fears equities still unnerving financial markets testifying panel house banking committee mr. greenspan said short-term value dollar foreign-exchange markets is n't primary policy focus central bank essential focus is domestic policy mr. greenspan said referring goals price stability stable economy perhaps most telling remark mr. greenspan termed current u.s. inflation rate % much too high be ignored added however inflation be brought down close zero throwing economy recession analysts viewed chairman comments indication central bank is disinclined ease monetary policy further near future dollar climbed immediately higher news mr. greenspan testimony settling lower later trade dealers squared positions ahead today preliminary report third-quarter u.s. gross national product late new york trading yesterday dollar was quoted marks down marks tuesday yen up yen late tuesday sterling was quoted up late tuesday tokyo thursday u.s. currency opened trading yen up wednesday tokyo close yen many traders forecast continuation market recent bearish trend predict u.s. currency remain stuck relatively narrow ranges near term then shift lower according doug madison corporate trader bank america los angeles large number short positions first be corrected spurring temporary upswing unit turn lower predicts downward move dollar-mark trade less dramatic slip dollar-yen noting continues be large pool japanese investor interest u.s. securities provide solid base dollar yen market participants hope today gnp report offer more substantial evidence u.s. economic growth analysts are quick point out figures overstate economy vigor r word is looming again says dealer referring persistent concern market analysts u.s. economy is heading major slowdown not recession dealers note third-quarter figures appear relatively bullish market consensus calls % annual growth rate unchanged second-quarter rate take significantly stronger figure alter market perceptions economy is softening analysts reckon next quarter figures present more accurate picture u.s. economy showing marked slowdown number sectors including housing starts equities commodity exchange new york gold current delivery settled ounce down estimated volume was light ounces early trading hong kong thursday gold was quoted ounce