recent decisions federal courts cast judges odd role telling authors write history biography decisions deserve more attention have received scholars journalists as well russell miller bare-faced messiah the true story l. ron hubbard is biography founder church scientology mr. hubbard died bequeathed copyrights writings church licensed new era publications danish corporation new era sought permanent injunction restrain henry holt co. publishing bare-faced messiah ground mr. miller quotations mr. hubbard infringed copyrights publisher argued response fair use statute permits quotation purposes such criticism comment news reporting teaching scholarship research district court judge pierre leval denied injunction ground new era had failed make claim reasonable time doctrine lawyers call laches merits judge leval said mr. miller had written serious book responsible historical criticism verbatim quotation judge believed was justified order prove points author had asserted mr. hubbard mendacity bigotry paranoia other unlovely traits not be persuasively demonstrated use mr. hubbard own words judge leval wrote not be required simply express conclusions defending example such circumstances free-speech interests outweighed interests copyright owner judge leval felt constrained earlier decision second circuit court forbidding biographer j.d. salinger quote mr. salinger personal letters distinguished cases salinger judge leval noted quotations were purpose enlivening biography rather proving points subject still salinger decision created strong presumption fair use unpublished materials judge leval reluctantly concluded few mr. miller quotations mr. hubbard unpublished writings were not necessary prove historical points failed fair-use test therefore infringed copyright proper remedy judge leval said lay suit damages not injunction case went appeal second circuit decision april year judge roger miner joined judge frank altimari agreed denying injunction did not doubt bare-faced messiah was serious work rejected judge leval argument public interest scholarship outweigh sanctity copyright conclude judges wrote laches is sole bar issuance injunction had suit been filed time said bare-faced messiah have been suppressed was too much james oakes court chief judge powerful separate opinion judge oakes further distinguished salinger case pointing living person mr. salinger had privacy rights did not apply dead man mr. hubbard thought salinger being taken factual context come back haunt case realizes concern decisions second circuit judge oakes continued had recognized public interest subject matter indispensability particular cases verbatim quotations are vital components fair use injunction judges miner altimari so readily have granted had new era sued time suppression book judge oakes observed operate prior restraint thus involve first amendment moreover here judge oakes went heart question responsible biographers historians constantly use primary sources letters diaries memoranda indeed be irresponsible ignore such sources information now scholars fulfilling responsibility do not claim right invade collection papers bears topics investigation course agree people impose restrictions use papers own possession as donated sold libraries bare-faced messiah case author found most material court records freedom information act responsible scholars gain legitimate access unpublished materials copyright not be permitted deny use quotations help establish historical points judges oakes leval understand requirements historical scholarship judges miner altimari do not appear have clue yet moment are judges are making law matters stand salinger ruling torn context broadly construed is controlling author quotes more minimal amounts unpublished copyrighted materials salinger decision had deserves be enjoined courts have not defined minimal amounts publishers understand take mean words bare-faced messiah decision strikes blow whole historical enterprise second decision handed august court appeals ninth circuit is blow scholarship janet malcolm professional writer psychiatric matters wrote series articles new yorker later published book form knopf title in freud archives articles were largely based interviews ms. malcolm had taped jeffrey masson psychoanalyst had served projects director freud archives mr. masson then brought libel suit ms. malcolm new yorker knopf public figure mr. masson had prove malice proof malice mr. masson contended defamatory quotations ascribed ms. malcolm were fact fabricated quotes not be found tapes judges decided case ms. malcolm publishers conceded purpose decision assume quotations were deliberately altered historians most journalists admission have been sufficient condemn malcolm articles judge arthur alarcon joined judge cynthia holcomb hall took astonishing position is perfectly ok fabricate quotations so long judge finds fabrications do not alter substantive content are rational interpretations ambiguous remarks eloquent dissent judge alex kozinski observed writer uses quotation marks reporting someone has said reader assumes are speaker precise words least words purged know grammatical error judges have obligation first amendment safeguard freedom press right deliberately alter quotations is not view concomitant free press ms. malcolm example wrote mr. masson described greatest analyst ever lived such statement appears tapes majority cited mr. masson remark 's alone rest analytic world warrant malcolm fabrication judge kozinski noted context shows mr. masson alone remark referred not alleged pre-eminence profession fact position particular issue was not shared anyone else ms. malcolm had mr. masson describing intellectual gigolo again such statement appears tapes majority decision contended phrase was rational interpretation mr. masson description private asset public liability anna freud case was not defamatory judge kozinski found derivation entirely strained writes academic refer intellectual gigolo is devastating admission professional dishonesty were only series fabrications had judge kozinski words cumulative effect making mr. masson appear more arrogant less sensitive shallower more self-aggrandizing less touch reality appears own statements robert coles wrote review ms. malcolm book mr. masson emerges grandiose egotist end self-destructive fool is not janet malcolm calls such own words reveal psychological profile now know words were not always own is sacred rule journalism john hersey has said writer not invent green light judges alarcon hall have given fabrication quotations become standard practice notably reduce value journalism historians citizens judge kozinski put invoke right deliberately distort someone else has said is assert right lie print masson has lost case defendants profession belong have lost far more historical profession survive decisions perhaps time supreme court correct writing history is tough enough judges gratuitously throwing obstacles scholar path mr. schlesinger is albert schweitzer professor humanities city university new york winner pulitzer prizes history biography