corner cavernous new nippon convention center sits mazda motor corp. advanced-technology display highlight fragrance control system touch button drivers choose lavender jasmine mint perfume scents blown car air-conditioning system soft wafting aromas improve ride comfort display attests proud employee says mazda hopes move system lab cars year welcome 28th tokyo motor show here find mitsubishi motors corp. displaying live fish transporter truck akin aquarium wheels nissan motor co. keyless boga doors unlock recognizing owner fingerprints suzuki motor co. escudome sport vehicle features pop-out rear tent invites drivers go back nature biennial event world largest display cars trucks has serious side including first major exhibitions future engines vehicle-suspension systems 's also prime showcase country world dominance industry is increasingly acknowledged therein lies draw even biggest auto shows u.s. are largely regional affairs tokyo show is international virtually automotive analyst new york showed detroit-to-tokyo flights were booked solid week motor city executives including ford motor co. chairman donald e. petersen chrysler corp. vice chairman gerald greenwald flocked see future even soviet union came first time years show lada niva sedan futuristic dark-blue kompakt model here 's firsthand look japanese hosts sported foreign visitors saw new technology hottest displays were items insulate passengers bumps potholes other rigors road active suspension systems electronically sense road conditions adjust car ride existing suspension systems try absorb bounces active suspension provides power counter jolts nissan 34-page tract modestly compares hydraulic active suspension cheetah equates various parts animal heart brain nerves blood vessels toyota motor corp. grandly touted system car splits reveal suspension inner workings nissan says introduce first system next month infiniti q45 luxury sedan toyota celica coupe go sale suspension device spring drivers u.s. wait japanese now are keeping active suspension domestic use only detroit big auto makers say systems are still development engine department several companies displayed experimental models decade provide power equal today engines yet take only space allowing shorter hoods so-called two-stroke engines are expected get sharply higher gas mileage piston goes only once provide power contrast pistons conventional four-stroke engines move twice power cycle two-stroke engine displays toyota fuji heavy industries maker subaru cars drew plenty interest u.s. auto executives are rushing develop two-stroke engines honda motor co. shows more conventional five-cylinder engine new accord inspire model made debut just month japan only honda says five-cylinder engine provides compromise fuel-economy four-cylinder power v-6 is rumored be bound new model luxury acura line u.s. honda officials n't comment odd cars funny names 's plenty whimsy here is n't always clear 's intentional show symbol is woman riding snail not usual metaphor speed agility sponsors have explanation character associated snail say important values such harmony nature aspirations future are sought japanese auto makers are known coming funny names year practice seems have reached new high low honda has tiny motorcycle called monkey slightly larger cousin gorilla mitsubishi has futuristic delivery truck called guppy mazda has bongo truck autozam nameplate microvan called scrum buglike carol minicar is designed softness gentleness warmheartedness court jester appears be japan smallest car maker daihatsu motor co futuristic concepts is bubblelike sneaker seats just person front hold small child bag groceries rear daihatsu also has fellow leeza spider hijet dumbo jokes are n't just japanese though regie nationale des usines renault french auto maker has concept car called megane name is supposed connote feminine grandeur japanese means eyeglasses foreign presence foreign auto makers are taking tokyo motor show more seriously ever ab volvo invites passers-by play role test dummy hopping car simulates crash show just seat-belt tightener works hyundai motor co. south korea has first-ever exhibit tokyo general motors corp. is sponsoring first independent display years includes boxy buick station wagon wood-grain side panels ford chrysler also have exhibits are tucked separate room less-popular automotive parts section 've got get detroit mentality be part world mentality declares charles m. jordan gm vice president design explaining pilgrimage tokyo show even so traditional american cockiness is n't terribly endangered ford officials example crowed first-ever tokyo grand prix racing victory true ford was declared winner sunday only honda driver crossed finish line first was disqualified hit car skid momentarily bounds mr. jordan gm meanwhile still criticizes japanese styling 's hard japanese says get feeling car get passion car get emotion car