america biggest trading partners gave quick thumbs-down u.s. proposal liberalize world trade reduce farm-product subsidies geneva world trade talks are being held general agreement tariffs trade gatt european community called u.s. proposal step backward japan minister agriculture forestry fisheries told committee japan parliament washington proposal was impractical tokyo continue heavily subsidize rice farmers u.s. far-reaching plan submitted geneva meeting tuesday proposed curbing price support subsidies years eliminating export subsidies years u.s. officials said plan was flexible was intended pragmatic approach gradually removing trade-distorting subsidies ec reacted defiantly arguing proposal main aim is destroy common agricultural policy ec billion-a-year price support program american proposal is not adequate basis negotiation ec said statement ec officials say are irked u.s. has set specific timetable is insisting elimination export subsides not just reduction ec agriculture commissioner ray macsharry said u.s. plan calls question agreement reached world negotiators last april geneva seeking substantial progressive reductions agricultural support protection u.s. deputy trade representative jules katz replied proposal was entirely consistent april accord said was surprised ec reaction calling vehement even frenetic u.s. proposal also was criticized food-importing developing countries said u.s. made special allowances poor nations many experts argue food-importing nations eventually become self-sufficient free-market system poorest nations are likely need help meantime ambassador katz said u.s. was open discussing particular problems developing countries u.s. administration said plan allow considerable flexibility determining free-trade goals be achieved u.s. argues plan ease transition freer agriculture trade converting certain non-tariff barriers tariffs together existing tariffs then be phased years ec is strongly opposed converting agricultural supports tariffs new u.s. package also says countries temporarily raise tariffs certain products experience unusually heavy volume imports establish procedures prevent countries using health sanitation rules impede trade arbitrarily seeking allay european concerns u.s. agriculture secretary clayton yeutter said washington new u.s. plan n't put farmers business encourage grow markets desire instead government wants ec population has farmers u.s. population has only farmers japan objections u.s. plan center desire stay self-sufficient rice staple food even foreign producers are far more efficient