soviets announced last soldier had left afghanistan february voices skepticism were drowned international chorus euphoria was soviets vietnam kabul regime fall millions refugees rush home resistance government walk kabul bought illusion are now bewildered months gen. boris gromov walked bridge u.s.s.r. soviet-controlled regime remains kabul refugees sit camps restoration afghan freedom seems as far as ever never was chance afghan resistance overthrow kabul regime quickly easily soviet leaders said support kabul clients means necessary did u.s. said fully support resistance did n't february u.n. accords relating afghanistan soviet union got everything needed consolidate permanent control terms geneva accords leave moscow free provide clients kabul assistance kind including return soviet ground forces requiring u.s. pakistan cut aid only fly soviet ointment was last-minute addition unilateral american caveat u.s. aid resistance continue as long soviet aid kabul did as soon accords were signed american officials sharply reduced aid february soviets said had completed pullout u.s. cut further not soviets gen. gromov said soviet troops expected leave more military equipment installations kabul regime troop withdrawal moscow has poured additional worth month nearly february equivalent total u.s. aid resistance years includes deputy foreign minister yuli vorontsov fetchingly called new peaceful long-range weapons including more scud missiles early may moscow had delivered example trucks tanks artillery hundreds other combat vehicles later month added entire tank brigade including t-72 tanks more bmp state-of-the-art infantry fighting vehicles september new reinforced motorized rifle brigade additional combat vehicles more trucks soviet-trained afghan troops had arrived kandahar last few weeks moscow has added frog-7b missiles bomber version an-12 mig-23bn high-altitude aircraft mig-29s outfly pakistan u.s.-built f16s sukhoi su-27 fighter-bombers outfly mig-29s moscow claims is needed protect kabul regime guerrilla resistance is well-known regular afghan infantry is filled reluctant conscripts is not entire afghan army is longer kabul only military force complete units have been trained indoctrinated u.s.s.r. other east bloc nations troops have returned addition regime has established well-paid paramilitary forces totaling more including soviet-trained troops interior ministry still is directed soviet kgb officers even not forces are committed regime are now dependent thousands afghan children have been taken soviet union are hostage behavior families indian military advisers have been assisting kabul regime preparation withdrawal moscow kabul new delhi signed agreements several newly civilian indian experts replace more visible soviet military personnel cuban military personnel also have been active afghanistan soviets cut deal iran future iranian role afghanistan exchange iranian support soviet policy deal was symbolized restoration shi'ite sultan ali keshtmand afghan prime ministry moreover serious questions have been raised claimed withdrawal soviet forces assassination president zia pakistan repeatedly stated fresh soviet troops were being inserted afghanistan even others were ostentatiously withdrawn rep. bill mccollum r. fla. reports included soviet central asian kgb border guards ethnically indistinguishable afghans wearing unmarked uniforms meanwhile kabul regime is increasingly successful portraying resistance bloody-minded fanatics are aided years american european pakistani saudi support most extreme factions radical islamic fanatics leaders policies are anathema afghan public heavy outside support worst has undermined better moderate leaders autumn last year example regime garrison kandahar was prepared surrender city resistance moderates last minute however pakistani officials sent gulbuddin hekhmatyar perhaps most hated feared extremists demand surrender be made forces deal fell kandahar remains major regime base resistance lacks not only air power armor expertise often such essentials maps mine detectors even winter gloves experienced resistance commanders wanted use guerrilla action siege tactics wear regime instead were pressured pakistan isi channel support attacking jalalabad took more % casualties journalists report faced minefields mine detectors wonder is not resistance has failed topple kabul regime continues exist fight last summer response congressional criticism state department cia said had resumed military aid resistance months was cut is not clear much is being sent arrive months resistance has been defenseless air attack thus far is indication have been re-supplied stingers other anti-aircraft weapons indeed u.s. officials have indicated press continuation aid depends success weakened resistance achieves end year moscow kabul have found information useful decade u.s. policy has been incoherent based miscalculation defense bureaucratic political turf settlement negotiated others force afghan people give struggle cutoff u.s. military aid merely abandon die vain creation new realistic u.s. policy is long overdue ms. klass editor co-author afghanistan the great game revisited freedom house directs freedom house program asia