people start own businesses many reasons chance fill sales-tax records is rarely one red tape is bugaboo small business ironically person wants run own business is probably active results-oriented sort most likely hate meeting rules record-keeping demands federal state local regulators business owner has face mound forms regulations often is only one available tackle is hope change last week sen. malcolm wallop r. wyo held hearings bill strengthen existing law designed reduce regulatory hassles small businesses great many federal regulations are meant larger entities do n't really apply small businesses says marian jacob legislative aide sen. wallop other lawmakers are busy trying revive recently lapsed paperwork reduction act many feel benefited small enterprises thus optimistic entrepreneurs await promised land less red tape just as soon uncle sam gets arranging meanwhile tackle mounds paper fantasize dream world bulk-mail postal regulations government inspectors are banished find red tape riles entrepreneurs most journal asked completely unscientific random sample business owners fantasize forms regulations most like get lost mail entrepreneurs say red tape most love hate is red tape also hate lose concede much government meddling torments is essential public good even own businesses rules set standards products govern business behavior generally best regarded form red tape create level playing field keep unscrupulous competitors says sidney west president techdesign international inc. springfield va. business designs telecommunication other products mr. west cites federal communications commission standards telecommunications equipment monitor product quality prevent junk flooding market gripes red tape are predictable architects complain host building regulations auto leasing companies car insurance rules determining handicapped access is required be nightmare architects says mark dooling president dooling co. newton mass. architectural firm is maze federal state local codes building inspectors are backing away interpreting mr. dooling says taxi leasing other companies maintain fleets vehicles devote substantial resources complying state insurance laws host agencies 's very costly time-consuming says phil rosen partner fleet leasing management inc. boston car-leasing company senior executive firm spends nearly % time insurance says other forms red tape are more pervasive most onerous many entrepreneurs say is record-keeping filing required tax authorities complying environmental workplace regulations runs close second gripes run gamut here is red tape irks surveyed business owners most environmental regulations next medical insurance costs compliance are fastest-growing expense impco inc. providence r.i. chemical company peter gebhard company owner says spending regulatory paper work people do mostly comply federal state local environmental laws rise almost % year mr. gebhard adds spending environmental red tape amounts % % impco total operating expenses eastern reproduction corp. waltham mass. maker thin metal precision parts report federal state agencies as well local fire police hospital plumbing authorities says robert maguire president state environmental regulator returned report was n't heavy enough n't have been correct mr. maguire says withholding rules employers deposit withholding taxes exceeding days payroll pay stiff penalties 's big problem small businesses 's especially nettlesome 're road 're one responsible says eddie brown president brown capital management inc. baltimore money-management firm employee manuals revising employee manuals pensions health care other subjects costs year bert giguiere president professional agricultural management inc. fresno calif. provider business services farmers employer leaves open great deal liability employee manuals do n't reflect most recent laws says ever-changing laws are usually so complicated confusing need professionals help n't do adds pension profit-sharing rules complying is enough make business owners look forward own pension days yearly changes federal benefit laws force small businesses repeatedly re-evaluate redesign existing plans alice fixx runs own public-relations concern new york says has had overhaul pension profit-sharing plans times past years does n't increase benefits 's costly time-consuming ms. fixx says compliance added % % accounting bill last year says sales tax records advertising agencies other service companies are exempt city state sales tax most locales exemption comes price exhaustive records rigorous reviews justify exempt status avoid penalties businesses show once year transaction did n't pay sales tax was legitimate business expense need person just take care sales tax says jennie tong executive vice president lee liu tong advertising inc. new york