texaco inc. reported % increase third-quarter earnings attributed partly company massive restructuring emerged bankruptcy-law proceedings months sun co. also reported higher earnings meanwhile many other oil companies hurt less-profitable downstream businesses mobil corp. shell oil co. chevron corp. reported lower quarterly earnings texaco texaco exploration production earnings improved result streamlining operations sold many marginal producing properties past months increase production major oil fields north sea had been knocked explosion july also aided results sale portion refining marketing operations saudi arabia helped alleviate decline earnings business company has been completely revamped said frank knuettel analyst prudential-bache securities inc third-quarter net income texaco rose last year revenue declined % per-share earnings declined share share largely additional shares issued retire debt per-share earnings also shrank dividends new series preferred stock sun sun co. net income climbed % cents share cents share revenue increased % sun said growth reflects higher earnings oil sands operation suncor majority-owned canadian subsidiary chairman robert mcclements jr. said synthetic crude oil production facility rose even price oil increased overseas exploration production results also improved additional output north sea magnus field portion was acquired sun earlier year results declined however sun refining marketing coal businesses shell oil profits shell subsidiary royal group tumbled % gain insurance settlement president frank richardson attributed decline lower natural gas prices countered higher earnings crude oil sector shell exploration production operation shaving away gain unit was decline u.s. oil production barrels oil day quarter barrels day last year shell chemical earnings fell reflecting lower margins less demand commodity chemicals mobil net income mobil corp. slipped % share share revenue declined earnings included one-time gain property transaction hong kong exploration production profits slumped due provision restructuring costs restructuring take place two-year period involve transfer layoff employees u.s. operations reduce costs focus efforts other areas last year third-quarter earnings included gain foreign tax rate changes loss write-off reserves chevron chevron net income fell % share share results included gain sale rights chevron investment amax inc. loss sale california oil gas properties revenue rose % chevron said higher crude oil prices boosted profits production operations margins refining marketing declined profits u.s. exploration production operations totaled property sale loss compared year-earlier loss included reorganization charge refining marketing operations earned quarter year compared earnings year earlier included charges environmental programs foreign earnings fell included gain lower canadian australian taxes chemical profits fell jeff rowe contributed article