president bush insists be great tool curbing budget deficit slicing lard government programs wants now not fast says rep. mickey edwards oklahoma fellow republican consider stupidest ideas 20th century says 's line-item veto procedure allow president kill individual items big spending bill passed congress vetoing entire bill thinks idea 's far more budgetary gimmick seem first glance rather 's device send shock waves president entire relationship democrats republicans alike congress fundamentally enhance power presidency transform way government does business president bush badly wants line-item veto has long called law giving president now white house is declaring not rely congress has n't shown willingness surrender such authority pass line-item veto law seeks white house spokesmen last week said mr. bush is considering simply declaring constitution gives power exercising line-item veto inviting court challenge decide has right sound arcane maneuver little interest washington set political earthquake ramifications are enormous says rep. don edwards california democrat is senior member house judiciary committee 's real face-to-face arm wrestling challenge congress white house aides know 's step n't be taken lightly reason president back launching test case year senior advisers argue further fights capital-gains tax cut budget-reduction bill looming mr. bush already has enough pending confrontations congress prefer put line-item veto least next year still mr. bush other aides are strongly drawn idea trying line-item veto issue arose last week vice president dan quayle told audience chicago mr. bush was looking test case white house press secretary marlin fitzwater confirmed mr. bush was interested idea cautioned was n't firm decision try mr. bush former president reagan host conservative activists have been arguing line-item veto go long way restoring discipline budget process maintain president needs ability surgically remove pork-barrel spending projects are attached big omnibus spending bills bills n't easily be vetoed entirety often are needed keep government operating conservatives note governors have line-item veto use state budgets more provocatively conservative legal theorists have begun arguing mr. bush does n't need wait law giving veto power already is implicit constitution base argument clause buried article section constitution states order resolution vote concurrence senate house representatives be necessary question adjournment be presented president united states same take effect be approved disapproved clause argue is designed go earlier clause specifying president veto bill is broad enough allow strike items riders bills senate minority leader robert dole r. kan. accepts argument earlier year publicly urged mr. bush use line-item veto allow courts decide not is constitutional little doubt move be immediately challenged court quickly make way supreme court be ultimately resolved 's major issue n't want leave lower level says stephen glazier new york attorney writings have been instrumental pushing idea president already has line-item veto rep. edwards california democrat is pledges immediately challenge mr. bush courts arguing line-item veto expand president powers far anything framers constitution had mind puts president legislative business declares 's not fathers had mind addition giving president powers rewrite spending bills meant be written congress rep. edwards argues line-item veto allow chief executive blackmail lawmakers notes lawmaker san francisco area fights year preserve federal funds bay area rapid transit system president had line-item veto wanted force support controversial foreign-policy initiative rep. edwards says president call declare single-handedly kill bart funds congressman shapes foreign-policy issue proponents maintain president choose use line-item veto more judiciously be problem device political angst cause n't be effective cutting deficit big chunks government budget entitlement programs social security medicare n't be affected governors have found have use device sparingly maintain political comity is n't even clear pork-barrel projects be hit line-item veto tend be listed informal conference reports accompanying spending bills rather official bills still proponents contend the veto have mr. glazier calls important chilling effect manner appropriations bills lawmakers say avoid putting many spending projects legislation first place fear embarrassment having singled line-item veto later outcome test case president bush have move cautiously very attempt antagonize not just democrats republicans says louis fisher scholar congressional research service specializes executive-legislative relations republicans have as much interest democrats way system works notes indeed majority republican lawmakers favor line-item veto ranging liberal oregon sen. mark hatfield conservative rep. edwards are opposed rep. edwards voices traditional conservative view 's mistake put too much power hands single person conservatives pushing line-item veto now notes regret later sometime 're going have democratic president again use expanded powers very same conservatives order resolution vote concurrence senate house representatives be necessary question adjournment be presented president united states same take effect be approved being disapproved be repassed two-thirds senate house representatives according rules limitations prescribed case bill constitution article section clause