democratic-controlled house margin votes failed override president bush veto legislation renewing federal support medicaid abortions poor women are victims rape incest 231-191 roll call illustrates limits power resurgent abortion-rights movement still faces continues gain strength chamber remains far short two-thirds majority required prevail mr. bush democrats voted override 3-1 margin republicans were equally firm support president has threatened make abortion decisive issue least separate fiscal spending bills yesterday vote dealt largest bills estimated measure funding departments labor education health human services gain more leverage abortion-rights advocates seek fold bill omnibus continuing resolution next month stark numbers yesterday votes were needed indicate president is commanding position least year changes lose said democratic leadership aide action came congress sent president last night stopgap spending bill keep government operating nov. provide emergency funds assist recovery hurricane hugo california earthquake lopsided margin senate approved measure attaching further provisions sought influential california delegation reservations house adopted bill 303-107 roll call package is more recommendations budget director richard darman week given political importance california administration was content use influence prevent senate amendments adding further new appropriations measure comes top appropriated hugo struck carolinas caribbean last month totals do n't reflect additional benefit low-interest disaster loans bill last night includes help finance credit further raises obligation ceiling small business administration sixfold accommodate expected loan activity direct cash assistance is provided federal highway construction funds is divided general emergency aid reserve be available president meet unanticipated costs disasters senate majority whip alan cranston used position win not only expanded credit also more generous treatment house had permitted distribution highway funds next months emergency assistance n't be counted state normal allocation annual highway funds bill circumvents existing restrictions otherwise prevent use federal aid repair toll road such san francisco-oakland bay bridge damaged last week earthquake underlying stopgap bill is second required congress fall current fiscal year began oct. only energy interior departments are operating permanent appropriations enacted law standoff abortion is certain contribute further delays apart health education measure vetoed mr. bush bills funding district columbia entire u.s. foreign-aid budget are jeopardy related abortion family-planning issues vote yesterday was most partisan many years democratic leadership is ambivalent address abortion issue debate is increasingly measured party terms democrats supported override yesterday compare initially backed rape-and-incest exemption weeks ago last year similar vote comparison republicans have held closer anti-abortion movement only gop members opposed president veto marginal increase vote weeks ago just more supported rape-and-incest exemption last year recent white house meeting rep. silvio conte r. mass. ranking minority member house appropriations committee argued friend mr. bush veto mr. conte minority leader robert michel illinois stood president yesterday are plainly uncomfortable position is n't political issue is moral issue said rep. henry hyde r. ill. most eloquent spokesman anti-abortion movement years using issue benefit gop finds candidates defensive new jersey gubernatorial candidate rep. james florio pointedly returned campaigning vote president yesterday contrast opponent gop rep. james courter has ardently supported abortion restrictions past was absent extraordinary mix cultures church-state powers rep. robert dornan r. calif lectured fellow roman catholics including mr. florio having chutzpah disagree hierarchy church abortion rep. les aucoin was as blunt behalf abortion-rights movement not make george bush one-term president said oregon liberal addressing republican side house support rape victims be last term separately house last night approved nearly compromise spending bill providing first construction funds administration ambitious space station fiscal incorporating far-reaching provisions affecting federal mortgage market current ceiling home loans insured federal housing administration be increased bill gives department housing urban development new authority facilitate refinancing subsidized loans low-income homeowners 325-92 margin appropriations committee leadership beat back early challenge house banking chairman henry gonzalez d. texas fha provision closer 250-170 roll call lawmakers upheld controversial agreements made house-senate conference earmarking community development funds more projects backed often influential members