does n't anybody here want win mayor race stumble bumble election day weeks tomorrow democrat david dinkins republican rudolph giuliani are trouble mr. dinkins manhattan borough president afford more bumbling stumbling holds comfortable 20-point lead most public-opinion polls past days has taken series body blows pride reputation adversely affect ability govern tumultuous city become new york first black mayor ordinarily clever opponent find way capitalize other side misfortunes mr. giuliani celebrated prosecutor has had difficulty switching crime-busting finger-pointing mode political stance suggests know something running big troubled city now crucial moment 's running out money is nation biggest city traditionally mayor is nation best-known urban politician democrats hoped mr. dinkins become highly visible national leader republicans figured mr. giuliani nation best-known prosecutor had chance huge upset heart democratic territory pick new political star has n't worked out way dinkins is decent sloppy guy says david garth veteran campaign consultant here has always worked mayor edward koch defeated mr. dinkins sept. democratic primary alternative giuliani is ghastly guess reluctantly go ahead do vote dinkins says richard wade politically active professor supported richard ravitch also-ran democratic primary 's nothing other side 're picking steam insists roger ailes mr. giuliani media consultant last big campaign helped put george bush white house adds just has n't gotten engine room yet steam never reach engine room just mr. giuliani latches issue has mr. dinkins reeling campaign desperately needs cash keep mr. ailes commercials air wednesday thursday help out week white house is dispatching chief staff john sununu cabinet members hud jack kemp transportation samuel skinner treasury nicholas brady according peter powers giuliani campaign manager republicans began campaign such high hopes is deeply frustrating historically new york is almost always trouble trouble faces now democratic rule seems bigger more daunting anything has faced past year city faces budget deficit become even bigger next year hardly surprising many residents trying cope city other problems are constantly edge ethnic group scrapping people were n't so happy 1930s says thomas lessner local professor biographer legendary fiorello laguardia city fusion mayor built coalition mr. giuliani hopes emulate least back then did n't generally direct anger other 62-year-old mr. dinkins ex-marine has served city clerk manhattan borough president job limited executive responsibilities defy come up major accomplishment david dinkins says mr. giuliani defeated contentious mr. koch democratic primary partly seemed offer hope heal city racial ethnic wounds general-election campaign is almost reagan-like muted pictures comforting words theme is unity decency humanity bringing new york together again candidates are negotiating holding debates mr. dinkins is widely seen major obstacle scheduling 45-year-old mr. giuliani has run negative campaign pick votes leaning mr. dinkins 's got get dinkins negatives says lee miringoff director marist college institute public opinion polls show voters do n't like attack stuff even % republican vote is going dinkins 's assault-weapons politics says john siegal mr. dinkins issues director insisting is strong racist undertone giuliani effort giuliani forces 's conundrum hand mr. giuliani wants cut mr. dinkins credibility other seeks convince voters 's new fiorello laguardia affable good-natured ready lead new york mess 's has n't helped 's waffled abortion gay rights sought support liberal conservative parties won liberal endorsement turned comedian jackie mason help jewish voters mr. mason left campaign telling reporters mr. dinkins is fancy'shvartzer moustache shvartzer is derogatory yiddish word black person mr. dinkins concedes nothing ability stumble bumble match jackie mason own robert sonny carson angry street organizer was convicted kidnapping dinkins campaign paid mr. carson close get vote primary-election day paper work was spent is incomplete mr. carson has been charged being anti-semitic asked other day replied anti-semitic 'm anti-white more troubling mr. dinkins is record personal accounting began was being considered deputy mayor routine check unearthed extraordinary fact had n't paid income tax previous years was always going do tomorrow explained time now 's busily trying explain arrangement sold stock inner city broadcasting co. headed old friend patron percy sutton son david dinkins jr. had valued shares more years earlier says sold stock avoid conflict-of-interest problems role voting member city board estimate says son has n't paid shares looks serious tax evasion says mr. ailes giuliani media consultant follows same pattern tax returns waits talk gets caught simply has n't explained something worth dollars ended up worth years later says mr. powers giuliani campaign manager 's ludicrous suggest 's difference the'breakup value shares market value so far though one not even former u.s. attorney giuliani has been able pinpoint just law mr. dinkins has broken just tax has evaded crime goes character says ron maiorana consultant giuliani campaign 's serious stuff evades ducks 's had history deception is latest chapter makes people think maybe guy is n't so squeaky clean says mr. garth mayor koch media consultant result turn out be lot closer people think