magazine publishers are facing spiraling costs glut new titles even raft recent failures is n't stopping launching new publications american magazine conference here publishers are plenty worried industry woes are also talking new magazines example toronto-based telemedia inc. publish eating well new food health magazine due next summer new york-based hearst corp. fall plans publish first issue months magazine expectant mothers has already launched american home time warner inc. is developing spinoff time magazine aimed kids heels successful sports illustrated kids past years number consumer magazines has increased average magazines annually according donald kummerfeld president magazine publishers america is impressive show faith future magazine industry said mr. kummerfeld entrepreneurs do n't rush get stagnant declining industry recent tough advertising climate industry figures released meeting here indicate things be turning first months advertising pages consumer magazines tracked publishers information bureau increased % same period last year pages total magazine ad revenue same period increased % magazines categories tough advertising climate persists industry general is doing well compared newspaper industry magazines are thriving magazine publishing industry remains risky business same months news corp. closed fashion once-promising young woman fashion magazine drake publications inc. has folded long-troubled venture magazine lang communications has announced ms. magazine years no longer carry advertising january lang is cutting costs attempt operate magazine only subscription revenue meanwhile american health partners publisher american health magazine is deep debt owen lipstein founder managing partner is being forced sell magazine reader digest association inc mr. lipstein absence meeting here raised speculation sale is trouble mr. lipstein said telephone interview new york sale was proceeding as planned magazine is strong 's simply right time do are doing mr. lipstein said magazines no longer be considered institutions said james autry president meredith corp. magazine group publishers find magazines have served purpose die added magazines other brands find have only limited life are also indications number magazine entrepreneurs traditionally depended break new ground potentially risky start-ups are dwindling more ever independent magazines small publishing groups are being gobbled larger publishing groups such american express publishing corp. unit american express co. conde nast publications inc. unit advance publications inc. are consolidating order gain leverage advertisers entrepreneurs are still active though gerry ritterman president new york-based network publishing corp. earlier year sold soap opera digest magazine rupert murdoch news corp mr. ritterman said next months take soap opera digest sale acquire new magazines not reveal magazines is considering magazines am looking are underdeveloped said mr. ritterman be old new are magazines editorial quality needs be improved be next hot magazines