first get buy computers get more information then computers give more information ever read now plan sell products sift information give really want know products range computer-edited personal newsletters systems sit personal computer pick stories selected topics news wires filtered news is people want says esther dyson editor release industry newsletter spots new developments most people read times more necessary order find really need geoffrey goodfellow dropped high school back manage computer network california research firm says old network hands have started turn network do n't have time wade muck mr. goodfellow has started menlo park calif. company called anterior technology provides human editors public electronic networks see sewage treatment plant says new product newsedge carries business news wires simultaneously user computer beeps flashes article appears is interest user product developed desktop data corp. new company based waltham mass. scans wires looking articles contain key words specified user early user david semmel chicago venture capitalist investor desktop data says uses track takeover developments says told newsedge look stories containing such words takeover acquisition acquire lbo tender merger junk halted 'm pretty confident 'm catching everything says newsedge is pricey year limited version year cost news wires is included works best high-powered personal computers investors consultants have tried are enthusiastic jeffrey tarter editor softletter watertown mass. industry newsletter says 've seen lot people fooling fringes filtering information is first time 've seen something imagine lot people using newsedge uses fm radio band carry news wires provided reuters mcgraw-hill dow jones co. as well pr newswire carries corporate press releases fm receiver attached user personal computer receives information organizations have devised own systems sort news wire items come in george goodwin account manager royal bank canada adapted lotus development corp. program called agenda sort international news wires automatically selects stories particular countries reading international bankers responsible lending areas do n't need personalized information moment moment services are offering overnight newsletters individual inc. new company brookline mass. uses filtering technology developed cornell university computer scientist gerard salton automatically produce customized newsletters sends electronically subscribers a.m. next day are operating information refinery takes broad stream raw data turns actionable knowledge says yosi amram founder president daily newsletter is n't widely available yet have base cost year provides full text relevant articles license agreements reuters mcgraw hill united press international press release news wires japan kyodo news service early user is nec corp. u.s. printer marketing arm want full press releases printer announcements competition mr. amram says also tracks personnel financial announcements nec distributors customers individual inc. technology goes word searches using computerized thesaurus customer asks stories ibm computer also supply stories mention i.b.m. international business machines big blue mr. amram says moreover individual inc. computers weigh value article based closely story matches subscriber interest area compares position key words story words headline first paragraph get higher value calculates often words appear story compared often appear entire data base higher ratio hits total words higher presumed value reader pinpoint information corp. chantilly va. producer 1,800-a-year personalized newsletters computer industry started full operation last month relies human readers code news releases topic order select items subscriber computers find key words editors confirm computer picking is n't perfect says harvey golomb president founder pinpoint humans also write abstracts articles computer industry publications once articles are coded put data base pinpoint computers pick most relevant subscriber lay three-to-five-page newsletter format newsletter is sent directly computer subscriber fax machine mr. golomb says computers produce send about unique newsletters night many computer network users never see news wires like sort electronic mail automatically so-called e-mail is collection inter-office memos gossip technical data schedules directives distributed local national computer networks interconnected computers make difficult sort 's junk 's important says chuck digate former lotus development executive has started new company cope problem mr. digate says firm beyond inc. has licensed technology known information lens massachusetts institute technology plans develop commercial use mit project devised ways e-mail be automatically categorized top priority comes certain designated senders requires action next couple days mr. digate says beyond refine product message be smart enough know come back bother again next week user is busy set crisis mode do n't bother reports monday program called notes is development lotus also is designed sort e-mail sent work groups thing makes e-mail difficult sift is item looks same notes is designed advanced computers display graphics allows mail senders put different logos mail daily news briefing company librarian example have distinctive format screen just paper version have e-mail do n't have visual clues paper says mr. tarter editor softletter notes 're visually distinct