r. gordon mcgovern was forced campbell soup co. president chief executive officer strongest evidence yet power dorrance family members intend wield reshaping troubled food company herbert m. baum 53-year-old president company campbell u.s.a. unit edwin l. harper chief financial officer run campbell team dividing responsibilities rather evenly successor is named board already has been searching strong outside candidates including food-industry executives considerable international experience wall street reacted favorably mr. mcgovern departure implications heavy trading new york stock exchange campbell shares rose close profit motive major shareholders has clearly changed better said john mcmillin food industry analyst prudential-bache new york mr. mcgovern was widely seen sales not profit oriented new managers think little more wall street mr. mcmillin added surge stock price appeared be linked revived takeover speculation has contributed volatility campbell shares recent months campbell international businesses particularly u.k. italy appear be heart problems growth has fallen short targets operating earnings are far results u.s. units example campbell is distant third u.k. frozen foods market recently paid times earnings freshbake foods plc wound far more capacity use similarly campbell italian biscuit operation d. lazzaroni co. has been hurt overproduction distribution problems such problems require considerable skill resolve however mr. baum mr. harper has much international experience mr. baum seasoned marketer is said have good rapport campbell employees have responsibility domestic operations pepperidge farm unit mr. harper veteran several manufacturing companies joined campbell take charge overseas operations as well pepperidge joint interview yesterday men said like be company next chief executive mr. mcgovern had been intense pressure board boost campbell mediocre performance level other food companies board is dominated heirs late john t. dorrance jr. controlled % campbell stock died april recent months mr. dorrance children other family members have pushed improved profitability higher returns equity august company took pretax charge fiscal earnings announced world-wide restructuring plan plan calls closing least plants eliminating jobs analysts said early results reorganization have been disappointing especially europe were signs board became impatient campbell officials said mr. mcgovern was n't available yesterday discuss circumstances departure company prepared statement quoted saying ceo succession is well 've decided personal reasons take early retirement people familiar agenda board meeting last week london said mr. mcgovern was fired mr. mcgovern had said repeatedly intended stay reached conventional retirement age october get fired campbell said mr. mcgovern had withdrawn name candidate re-election director annual shareholder meeting scheduled nov. fiscal mr. mcgovern received salary owns shares campbell stock has options buy more additional shares be eligible annual pension more certain other fringe benefits mr. mcgovern nine-year term president company sales rose net income increased statement said mr. baum said mr. harper advocated closing plants as long ago early 've got make restructuring work said mr. baum 've got make savings now mr. harper expressed confidence mr. baum convince board worthiness run company look great opportunity prove fact have tremendous management team said predicted board give current duo early next year naming new chief executive mr. baum said have orders focus bottom-line profits take hard look businesses is good is not so good analysts generally applaud performance campbell u.s.a. company largest division posted % unit sales growth % improvement operating profit fiscal way 've been managing campbell u.s.a. hopefully spread other areas company mr. baum said interview headquarters yesterday afternoon men exuded confidence seemed work well together 've got champions sitting right said mr. baum play win