just seemed safe go back stocks wall street suffered severe attack nerves does signal black monday is coming is extraordinary buying opportunity just oct. eventually turned be here 's several leading market experts money managers say friday action happens next investors do joseph granville 'm only said be october massacre all late august september says mr. granville once widely followed market guru still well-known newsletter writer everyone tell time is different says well ways is different technically is just same 're technician obey signals right now 're telling get hell stay out see major support see possibility going month mr. granville says n't even think buying least stocks have hit 52-week lows about stocks hit new lows friday most people says have idea massacre pattern looks elaine garzarelli quantitative analyst shearson lehman hutton inc. ms. garzarelli had warned clients take money market crash friday big drop says was not crash was october massacre occurred now years stock market indicators are positive thinks damage be short-lived contained corrections lasted weeks took market % down says is exactly same thing as far 'm concerned thus says dow jones industrial average dropped just be fluke advice is buy calculates average stock now sells about times companies earnings says ratio climb given current interest rates still be range fair value ned davis friday fall marks start bear market says mr. davis president ned davis research inc mr. davis views are widely respected money managers says expects 1987-style crash was unique combination says margin debt was record high was tremendous public enthusiasm stock mutual funds main thing was portfolio insurance mechanical trading system intended protect investor losses dollars stock was subject such selling contributed snowball effect today even be up day mr. davis says major brokerage firms agree refrain program trading next several months though says things look bad think market be heading down november says probably have year-end rally then go down again sort two-step bear market expects downturn carry dow jones industrial average down sometime next year be normal bear market says guess forecast leon g. cooperman do n't think market is going october do n't think 's case says mr. cooperman partner goldman sachs co. chairman goldman sachs asset management mr. cooperman sees good time pick bargains does n't think 's need rush expect market open weaker monday then find stability ticks several major differences now years ago interest rates have been falling year dollar has been strong economy does n't appear be danger overheating economy slower growth year also means outlook corporate profits is n't good says 's very mixed bag thus concludes is not good environment be fully invested stocks had come friday margin very little cash portfolios not do buying came friday conservative portfolio look do modest buying behalf clients 're going look better-known companies got clocked friday john kenneth galbraith is latest manifestation capacity financial community recurrent insanity says mr. galbraith economist see reaction whole junk bond explosion says explosion junk bonds takeovers has lodged lot insecure securities hands investors loaded corporations are objects takeovers feared takeovers huge amounts debt rather equity has made investors uneasy corporations more vulnerable nevertheless says depression does n't appear likely is more resiliency economy large commonly suppose says takes more error now have major depression back thirties much financial community government try mario gabelli new york money manager mario gabelli expert spotting takeover candidates says takeovers are n't totally gone companies are still going buy companies world says examples are ford looking jaguar bellsouth looking lin broadcasting sorts takeovers do n't require junk bonds big bank loans finance mr. gabelli figures continue market was up % president bush took office mr. gabelli says correction was be expected thinks crash is unlikely says was nibbling selected stocks friday plunge stocks were thrown just emotional basis are great opportunity week guys says jim rogers seems is pin has finally pricked balloon says mr. rogers professor finance columbia university former co-manager most successful hedge funds history quantum fund sees economic problems financial problems ahead u.s. fairly strong possibility recession friday n't sell dollars says dealers give quote then refuse make trade dollar stays weak says add inflationary pressures u.s. make hard federal reserve board ease interest rates very much mr. rogers n't decide do today sees london tokyo markets go recommends investors sell takeover-related stocks hang other stocks especially utilities often do well periods economic weakness frank curzio many people now claim have predicted crash queens newsletter writer francis x. curzio actually did stated writing september dow jones industrial average was likely decline about points following month mr. curzio says happens now depend good deal federal reserve board promptly cuts discount rate charges loans banks says quiet things not go very soon frank w. terrizzi stock prices still have go down additional amount become positive stocks says mr. terrizzi president managing director renaissance investment management inc. cincinnati renaissance manages about drew stiff criticism many clients earlier year pulled entirely stocks beginning year thus missed strong rally renaissance is keeping money entirely cash equivalents primarily u.s. treasury bills t-bills probably are right place be says see related story money matters unloading stocks worst step take wsj oct.