japan finance ministry strongly denied playing role new york stock-price free fall makoto utsumi vice minister international affairs said ministry did n't way suggest japanese banks stay out ual corp. leveraged buy-out ministry has never even suggested japanese banks be cautious leveraged buy-outs general mr. utsumi said are facts assertions sent kind signal declared interview comments were ministry first detailed public statement subject reflect ministry concern foreigners think japan is using tremendous financial power control events foreign markets number accounts events leading point drop new york stock prices oct. accused ministry pulling plug ual deal reason mr. utsumi said most ministry had ever done was ask japanese banks status participation previous u.s. leveraged buy-out ministry inquired deal mr. utsumi declined identify large presence japanese banks deal was being strongly criticized u.s. congress was necessary grasp situation said inquiry was n't made way banks have interpreted encouraging discouraging participation added none japanese banks changed posture deal result inquiry mr. utsumi also said japanese banks were willing participate ual financing very end suggest very least were n't orders back out general mr. utsumi said japanese banks are becoming more independent approach overseas deals japanese bank has own judgment profits risks ual deal said are becoming more independent 's sound phenomenon sanwa bank ltd. is japanese bank decided not participate first ual proposal sanwa bank spokesman denied finance ministry played part bank decision made own decision said still mr. utsumi have hard time convincing market analysts have rightly wrongly believed ministry played role orchestrating recent moves japanese banks week has been much speculation financial circles tokyo abroad ministry real position bank analysts say ministry officials have been growing increasingly concerned past few months japanese banks getting heads ministry thinks banks do n't know are doing have very little idea cope risk said foreign bank analyst asked not be identified ministry wants see japanese banks pull horns leveraged buy-outs added japanese banks involved first proposed bid ual bowed out found terms unattractive observers here say have hard time believing commercial considerations were only reason japanese banks are political pressure well analyst said moreover analysts point out japanese banks have reputation doing deals are n't extremely profitable offer chance build market share cement important business relationship curry favor powerful bureaucrats clearly financial authorities are concerned japanese banks role leveraged buy-outs news conference week bank japan gov. satoshi sumita cautioned banks take prudent stance regarding highly leveraged deals mr. sumita statements is finance ministry not central bank makes policy decisions recent events cool leveraged buy-out fever japanese banks are n't likely walk away game risks deals be attractive way japanese banks increase presence u.s. market bank analysts say flush cash home fewer customers lend leading banks are eager expand overseas jumping in big deals is high profile way leapfrog problem not having strong retail-banking network