major domestic auto makers plan build % fewer cars year fourth quarter built year ago the big accounting nearly decline continuing trend is putting intense pressure general motors corp. ford motor co. chrysler corp. output japanese-owned managed plants rise % year-earlier levels estimated cars production big plants is forecast fall % cars decline big is production shifted transplants diamond-star motors corp. builds cars sold chrysler as well mitsubishi motors corp mazda motor corp. u.s. plant builds cars own ford dealers new united motor manufacturing inc. supplies gm chevrolet toyota motor corp. u.s. dealer networks only transplants drop levels are owned mazda honda motor co part mazda decline reflects trying anticipate sales are going be said spokesman mazda also is adding mazda car flat rock mich. plant slowing output honda is accelerating production retooling marysville ohio plant build redesigned accord overall decline car production is matched almost equal drop % expected truck output gm ford chrysler nissan motor corp car truck sales are expected soften remainder year unusually high incentive-buoyed levels august september none is surprise said edward sullivan vice president automotive consulting wefa group market analysis firm bala cynwyd pa strong third-quarter sales stole fourth-quarter sales said schedules gm particular are still too high given market expectations likely mean trimming cuts are going come have come pretty soon added once get november 's not whole lot flexibility recent gyrations stock market did n't have immediate impact auto makers schedules based minimal impact event had car sales little hiccup is unlikely have influence said ford spokesman here are industry forecasts fourth quarter much difference chrysler car output compared year ago comes having fewer plants chrysler now-shuttered facilities kenosha wis. turned subcompacts mid-size cars fourth-quarter closed december more decline ford expected car output comes closing escort plant wayne mich. nov. prepare production next generation popular subcompact plant n't reopen late february early march company spokesman said lower output likely mean subcompacts lose first time model year distinction best-selling car u.s honda accord made u.s. japan was close second escort just-ended model year accord were top list be first vehicle foreign auto maker ever hold spot