kidder peabody co. is trying struggle only few months ago 124-year-old securities firm seemed be verge meltdown racked internal squabbles defections relationship parent general electric co. had been frayed big kidder insider-trading scandal years ago chief executives presidents had come gone now firm says 's turning point end year 63-year-old chairman silas cathcart former chairman illinois tool works was derided tool-and-die man ge brought clean kidder retires lake forest ill. home possibly build shopping mall land owns 've done came do kidder says means 42-year-old michael carpenter president chief executive january will first time take complete control kidder try make good grandiose plans mr. carpenter says return kidder prominence great investment bank wall street is understandably skeptical first months year kidder ranks distant 10th underwriters u.s. stocks bonds % market share slightly % year-earlier period according securities data co 's fall early 1980s kidder still was counted investment-banking powerhouse gary s. goldstein president whitney group executive search firm said like see kidder succeed have attract good senior bankers bring business day kidder eked profit mainly severe cost cutting 1,400-member brokerage operation reported estimated loss last year kidder expects turn profit year fact kidder is minor player just about business does computer-driven program trading controversial business only morgan stanley co. rivals kidder even niche is attack several wall street firms pulled program trading last week pressure big investors mr. carpenter former consulting-firm executive has love task forces says has done complete rethink kidder recent months have been dizzying parade studies firm operations more new managing directors senior vice presidents have been hired january firm brokerage force has been trimmed mergers-and-acquisitions staff increased record people mr. carpenter says assumes full control kidder finally tap resources ge ge goals bought % kidder was take advantage syngeries kidder general electric capital corp. ge corporate-finance unit has assets leveraged buy-out group ge capital now reports mr. carpenter so far instead teaming ge capital staffers kidder investment bankers have bickered yet says mr. carpenter 've really started exploit synergy ge capital kidder peabody units have worked investment banking deals year says not have panned 've had good relationship ge is first time say let withdraw 's been steadily improving relationship says mr. carpenter still many actual deals show kidder is left stress finally has team place everyone works harder month ago firm started serving dinner about night about people investment banking operation have consistently been around late are working significantly longer harder has been case past says scott c. newquist kidder head investment banking june everywhere kidder stresses always working theme new in-house magazine kidder world focus firm synergy strategy says mr. carpenter confides weekends mr. newquist often gets value-added ideas flying single-engine cessna centurion way nantucket firm new head mergers acquisitions mr. newquist b.j. megargel talks opportunity rebuild franchise kidder kidder name is only ceo recognizes viable alternative considering merger deal says now according kidder world story mr. megargel firm has do is position more deal flow investment banking kidder lead business do kidder 42-branch brokerage network brokers fit mr. carpenter month sold kidder brokerage offices florida puerto rico merrill lynch co. refueling speculation kidder is getting brokerage business entirely mr. carpenter denies speculation answer brokerage question kidder typical fashion completed task-force study result kidder focus rich individual investors small companies much closer clientele goldman sachs co. serve-the-world firm merrill lynch shearson lehman hutton inc mr. carpenter notes types investors also are sophisticated enough not complain kidder aggressive use program trading part upscale push kidder is putting brokers 20-week training course turning investment counselors knowledge corporate finance get new improved tools sell particularly affluent investor says brokerage chief charles v. sheehan theoretically brokers then be able funnel leads corporate finance opportunities kidder investment bankers possibly easing longstanding tension camps however skeptics caution kind cross-pollination brokers investment bankers looks great paper does n't always happen kidder competitors are n't outwardly hostile firm many are tough competitor drexel burnham lambert inc. does n't have kidder long history however competitors say kidder hiring binge involving executive-level staffers multiple-year contract guarantees backfire are results departing mr. cathcart says has worries kidder future mr. cathcart return quaker oats co. board directors addition personal ventures is credited bringing basic budgeting planning discipline traditionally free-wheeling kidder also improved firm compliance procedures trading mr. cathcart says has had lot fun kidder adding crack being tool-and-die man never bothered was absolutely marvelous line used many times says smiling broadly talks mr. carpenter mr. cathcart says new kidder chief is going be recognized shortly real leaders investment-banking business coming years mr. cathcart says kidder is gon hum mr. carpenter again drawing consulting-firm background puts 're ready implement point