dollar finished mostly stronger yesterday boosted modest recovery share prices dow jones industrial average climbed points spate bargain-hunting following last week declines attention is fixed stock market lack anything else sink teeth said robert white vice president first interstate california analysts predict absence market-moving news push u.s. unit sharply higher lower currency is likely drift marks week others reject view forecast dollar continue hold current tight trading pattern argue weakness yen sterling have helped offset bearish u.s. economic news have lent support dollar late new york trading yesterday dollar was quoted marks up marks late friday yen up yen late friday sterling was quoted up late friday dollar rose swiss french francs tokyo tuesday u.s. currency opened trading yen up monday tokyo close yen last week surprise resignation british chancellor exchequer nigel lawson sent british pound tailspin sterling bounced back session lows bout short-covering yesterday foreign exchange dealers said hopes pound soon post significant gains have evaporated traders said statements made weekend quell concern stability prime minister margaret thatcher government future economic program largely failed reassure investors bolster flagging british unit first televised interview following mr. lawson resignation mrs. thatcher reiterated desire keep sterling strong warned again full entry european monetary system exchange rate mechanism provide easy solution britain economic troubles said timing united kingdom entry depend speed other members liberalize economies mrs. thatcher remarks were seen rebuff several leading members own conservative party have called more clear-cut british commitment ems same time recent poll shows mrs. thatcher has hit lowest popularity rating british leader polling began years ago comments john major has succeeded mr. lawson also failed damp market concern pledge maintain relatively high british interest rates according london-based analyst even higher interest rates n't help pound britain government continues appear unstable u.s. trader however dismissed sterling doomsayers acknowledging is little immediate upside potential u.k. unit is question situation is bad be painting gloomier picture said predicts pound continue trade very volatile fashion fits being oversold overbought recovering losses dealers also note general lack enthusiasm yen has helped bolster u.s. dollar observe persistent japanese investor demand dollars portfolio direct investment has kept base support dollar yen dollar began yesterday firm note tokyo closing higher late trade europe dollar closed slightly up market dominated cross trades commodity exchange new york gold current delivery settled ounce down cents estimated volume was moderate ounces early trading hong kong tuesday gold was quoted ounce