rune andersson set revive flagging swedish conglomerate trelleborg ab early spurned advice trendy management consultants consultants kept coming telling concentrate high technology electronics biotechnology get mature basic industries mr. andersson recalls yet 45-year-old president trelleborg moved aggressively unfashionable base industries first strengthening existing rubber plastics division later adding mining as well building construction materials was gutsy move little-known executive fired only months president previous company going grain has never bothered mr. andersson stroking trademark white goatee recent interview diminutive swede quips turned be lucky whole market thinks 're doing is crazy do n't have much competition mr. andersson is anxious strengthen trelleborg balance sheet characteristically did n't waste much time getting started tuesday trelleborg directors announced plans spin big divisions minerals processing building distribution as separately quoted companies stockholm stock exchange current market prices twin public offerings be completed next year add estimated swedish kronor trelleborg coffers analysts say board had also been expected approve skr1.5 international offering new trelleborg shares share issue intended make trelleborg better known international investors was postponed market conditions stabilize people familiar situation say trelleborg internationally traded bfree series stock plunged skr29 skr205 volatile trading monday stockholm tuesday shares regained skr20 closing skr225 mr. andersson says is confident taking parts company public help erase conglomerate stigma has held trelleborg share price trelleborg plans remain dominant shareholder stakes slightly less % units spinoff solve problem parent family foundation set late founder henry dunker controls % trelleborg voting shares outstanding foundation bylaws require the entire trelleborg stake be sold open market control drops % possibility had crept closer repeated new share offerings finance trelleborg rapid growth steadily diluted foundation holding growth is result mr. andersson shopping spree has bought sold more companies past years most new additions were barely profitable not outright loss makers applying prowess gained earlier stints appliance maker ab electrolux mr. andersson handful loyal lieutenants aggressively stripped away dead wood got quick results treatment turned trelleborg scandinavia biggest fastest-growing industrial concerns sales multipled more times pretax profit surged almost twelvefold many analysts expect mr. andersson owns % company be named trelleborg new chairman ernst herslow steps next year promotion is n't likely alter management style mr. andersson describes being driving force leading troops not managing sitting back cigar waiting people bring ideas last month boldest move yet mr. andersson trelleborg joined forces canada noranda inc. joint hostile takeover big canadian mining concern falconbridge ltd industry analysts suggest conquest falconbridge vault trelleborg regional scandinavian success story world-class mining concern trelleborg is n't same league yet mining giants such rtz corp. anglo-american corp. says mike kurtanjek mining analyst james capel co. london certainly like 've seen so far trelleborg still clear tough hurdles mr. andersson acknowledges company mining division be busy while digesting recent expansion booming metals prices have fueled trelleborg recent profit surge raising mining share pretax profit % year big loss years earlier analysts caution expected fall metal prices next year slow profit growth mining is likely remain trelleborg main business analysts say chances success likely hinge well trelleborg manages cooperate noranda falconbridge venture noranda trelleborg came close winning falconbridge alone successful joint bid analysts say noranda prefer break falconbridge swedes relatively inexperienced international mining operations have problems holding own much bigger partner noranda operating home turf mr. andersson insists trelleborg noranda have n't discussed falconbridge break-up falconbridge says continue operating current form be reluctant accept ownership manufacturing company such partnerships are common mining are n't problems conflict interest risk cheating partner trelleborg president says perhaps more important companies share mr. andersson belief coming renaissance base industries were decade consumption be investment decade mr. andersson says whole europe industrialized world is suffering breakdown infrastructure investment says 's beginning change investment is key word base metals most other businesses trelleborg is