years pushing labor proposals overhaul nation health-care system bert seidman afl-cio is finding interest unlikely quarter big business corporate leaders frustrated double-digit increases health-care costs are beginning sound liberal democrats failure check rising medical costs ultimately lead today are free-market advocates re-examine thinking positions respect government-sponsored national health insurance arthur puccini general electric co. vice president warned earlier year pocketbook impact health benefits has driven business labor surprising consensus afl-cio national association manufacturers are calling measures control rising costs improve quality provide care americans currently lack health insurance agreement points is long way specific program nobody expects u.s. rush radical restructuring health-care system are signs labor-management cooperation change politics health-care legislation economics medicine n't remember time virtually everyone agree problem is says mr. seidman heads afl-cio department dealing health matters bush administration is n't taking initiative health issues business executives are dealing congressional democrats champion health-care revision business country is spending more time addressing issue says sen. edward kennedy d. mass 's bottom-line issue business complained earlier year sen. kennedy introduced bill require employers provide minimum level health insurance workers does n't contain cost-control measures partly response bipartisan group senators finance labor committees is drafting plan attract broader support feature cost-containment provision designed keep expanded benefits fueling higher care prices % gross national product u.s. health costs already are highest world contrast japan equal % gnp nation total output goods services management labor worry gap makes u.s. companies less competitive chrysler corp. estimates health costs add price cars about more car foreign competitors pay health cost health care is eroding standards living sapping industrial strength complains walter maher chrysler health-and-benefits specialist labor is upset many companies are using higher employee insurance premiums deductibles co-payments deflect surging medical costs workers health benefits are contentious issues strikes pittston co. nynex corp new contract year american telephone telegraph co. communications workers america agreed look prompt lasting national solutions rising health-care costs analysts are cynical new corporate interest health-care overhaul carl schramm president health insurance association america scoffs capitalists want socialize entire financing system health hope buy government cost discipline is false hope mr. schramm says asserts government has done even worse job controlling health bill business so far bush administration congress is prepared lead way revamping health care administration lacks comprehensive health-care policy congress still is struggling dismantle unpopular catastrophic care act boosted benefits elderly taxed pay new coverage bipartisan commission established congress headed sen. john rockefeller d. w.va is scheduled present new plans dealing uninsured long-term care elderly next march quadrennial commission appointed health human services secretary louis sullivan is taking broad look economics medicare elderly medicaid poor health system general is expected report next summer magic bullet be discovered next year election year says rep. fortney stark d. calif be window action pressure change rise costs think employers are really going be ones push major change says sharon canner health expert nam major attempt revamp health-care system is likely trigger opposition politically powerful interest groups particularly american medical association perhaps public as well congress takes steps patients fear limit availability care nam embraces efforts administration medical profession have begun measure effectiveness medical treatments then draft medical-practice guidelines advocates hope such standards improve treatment limiting unnecessary tests medical procedures hhs secretary sullivan estimates as much % medical procedures performed year be inappropriate unnecessary limiting care n't be easy popular slow rise total spending be necessary reduce per-capita use services nam warns policy statement require define redefine is necessary appropriate care involves trade-offs cuts grain existing consumer even provider conceptions is necessary afl-cio also embraces treatment guidelines addition 's toying approach impose health-expenditure ceilings budgets government whole individual states way slow health-care spending meeting here nov. labor federation plans launch major effort build grass-roots support health-care overhaul