whitbread co. put spirits division sale triggering scramble global groups british company brands whitbread already has been approached dozen companies interested buying part spirits business spokesman said analysts expect spirits operations california vineyards also are being sold fetch brands sale are beefeater gin no. imported gin u.s. laphroaig single-malt whiskey also sale are buckingham wile co. distributes cutty sark blended whiskey u.s. whitbread atlas peak vineyards california napa valley beefeater alone is worth much analysts said whitbread bought beefeater distillery years ago purchase represented attempt whitbread venerable british brewer become major player global liquor business whitbread has been squeezed giant rivals widespread consolidation industry now wants concentrate beer newer hotel restaurant operations rival liquor companies whitbread auction is rare opportunity acquire valuable brands 's not very often something comes up said ron littleboy liquor company analyst nomura research institute london division be sold off quite rapidly predicted neill junor analyst london brokers county natwest woodmac possible buyers grand metropolitan plc find beefeater useful addition portfolio grand met owns bombay gin no. imported gin u.s. rival guinness plc has no. imported brand tanqueray whitbread spirits auction is extremely interesting development naturally be considering carefully grand met spokesman said guinness owns several leading whiskey brands gordon gin world no. gin is considered less likely bid whitbread spirits guinness spokesman declined comment other global liquor giants canada seagram co. britain allied-lyons plc also are possible buyers seagram gin is world no. gin brand company does n't own major gin brands imported u.s allied-lyons powerful whiskey does n't own major white-spirit brands certainly have take look whitbread spirits business allied-lyons spokesman said certainly like have major white-spirits brand portfolio seagram spokesman new york n't comment smaller liquor companies such brown-forman corp. american brands inc. u.s. also are likely be interested such companies are increasingly being left behind global liquor business says nomura mr. littleboy new york spokesman american brands n't comment brown-forman louisville ky. distiller also declined comment whitbread wine spirits soft-drink operations had trading profit sales year ended feb. company is retaining most wine soft-drink interests did n't break results businesses plans sell analysts estimate trading profit whitbread had total pretax profit year ended feb. sales whitbread spirits auction occurs parallel shakeup british beer industry earlier year government announced plans foster increased competition industry british brewers currently own thousands pubs in turn sell only breweries beer soft drinks new rules many country pubs become free houses selling beers choice whitbread now intends bolster brewing interests effort grab share sales free houses company last month paid regional british brewer boddington group plc has % british beer market whitbread also owns license brew distribute heineken stella artois beers britain addition whitbread intends focus newer hotel liquor store restaurant businesses europe north america britain interests include beefeater steakhouse chain joint ownership pepsico inc. country pizza hut chain canada u.s. whitbread owns keg chain steak seafood restaurants focusing beer restaurants hotels means concentrate skills resources more effectively peter jarvis whitbread managing director said statement spirits business require substantial additional investment enable compete effectively first division global players whitbread also announced mr. jarvis is become company chief executive march time sam whitbread company chairman descendant 18th-century founder retire executive duties retain honorary title non-executive chairman