ogilvy mather declining profitability prompted takeover wpp group earlier year see profit margins bounce back % range said graham phillips agency new chairman-elect ad agency pretax profit margins were slightly % time takeover according analysts london-based wpp goal is increase margins % mr. phillips made comments interview detailing plans agency british-born 24-year ogilvy veteran was named last week succeed kenneth roman is leaving year end take top post american express ogilvy client surrounded stacks paper computers photos boating flying mr. phillips laid several changes hopes make agency first foremost mr. phillips said hopes improve client service ogilvy fastidious mr. roman gained reputation occasionally being high-handed treatment clients preaching strategy client indeed follow top client-service executives including mr. phillips were promoted point were saddled administrative duties little time see clients mr. phillips recently freed spend more time clients delegating much administrative work deputy also plans get know clients mr. roman was closer such lever brothers american express seagram men are planning joint visits number clients attempt smoothly hand reins clients want see more senior people involved business not month times week said mr. phillips also hopes finally implement reorganization announced earlier year put hold wpp takeover reorganization is supposed make one-stop shopping buying advertising public relations design place ogilvy orchestration ogilvyspeak reality reorganization ogilvy plans name executive account client service director work client single contact services is little integration work quality is spotty is single focus mr. phillips complained staffers march reorganization was announced now mr. phillips says hopes have new system place several clients including american express american telephone telegraph ryder year end industry executives analysts are divided mr. phillips is task is n't as well-known clients is mr. roman watch office politicking was often rampant agency new york operation office there has had dismal new-business record more year last week agency hired top mojo executive bill hamilton try bolster work graham has get revenue new york office moving says james dougherty analyst county natwest securities thing mr. phillips clearly does have going is continuity is n't certain be enough mr. dougherty says last thing need is enormous disruption top graham is obviously long-term member ogilvy mafia call mr. phillips mr. roman are indeed quite similar substance not style mr. roman is workaholic detailsman mr. phillips rather delegate leaving time interests office mr. roman contrast seems rarely cut loose did appear ogilvy halloween party friday decked duck feet duck hat costumed lame duck mr. phillips said company expected margin improvement be inevitable given company profitability was dragged year expensive move luxurious oversized new new york headquarters move budgeted actually came said margins be helped too other cost-saving steps ogilvy eliminated mail room staff closed executive dining room takeover let go dozen financial executives wpp assumes financial control businesses hands-on way instituted new financial system plans sublet floors ogilvy new headquarters building outsiders fact agency now be part u.k. company british accounting rules also make profit picture look better y&r klein steps arthur klein president young rubicam new york office stepped temporarily wake charges federal grand jury new haven conn. agency top executive bribed jamaican tourist officials win account internal memo alex kroll agency chairman said mr. klein decided remove minimize negative reaction prospective clients others prepare defense fact is process defending present charges conceivably have adverse impact y&r mr. kroll wrote said mr. klein return post end trial be vindicated mr. klein work mr. kroll agency joint venture activities acquisitions case is pending peter georgescu president y&r ad operations assume mr. klein day-to-day role wells rich new partner wells rich greene named cheryl heller executive vice president creative partner image group concentrates fashion visually oriented advertising ms. heller had headed boston agency unit wcrs agency billings be dissolved staffers absorbed wcrs della femina mcnamee unit boston ms. heller said said was too early say happen clients including reebok apple wells rich ms. heller concentrate accounts include philip morris benson hedges cigarette brand relies print ads ms. heller specialty previously reported account is troubled philip morris asking backer spielvogel bates ogilvy mather possibly others try hand developing new creative work wells rich declined comment status account did other agencies