margaret thatcher instinctive response latest upheaval government is promise business usual be last thing needs air clears last week storm resignations reshufflings government faces daunting job rebuilding confidence policies prime minister new chancellor exchequer untested john major need haul country something recession bring inflation set economy moving again mrs. thatcher has come terms european economic integration beginning european monetary system britain is committed joining fully someday finally government has convince rattled financial community voters is proceeding coherently goals sounds work decade deadline is late mrs. thatcher is expected call national election 's worrying supporters is economic cycle be kilter political timetable end seeking fourth term economy sick inflation high interest rates heavy trade deficit though mrs. thatcher has pulled other crises supporters wonder steely autocratic ways are right formula today 's rising fear perhaps mrs. thatcher style management has become political liability says bill martin senior economist london brokers ubs-phillips drew prime minister insistence keeping private coterie advisers including economic guru openly criticized former chancellor exchequer nigel lawson confused financial community last week strategy playing experts other blew mr. lawson quit exasperation sir alan walters adviser announced resignation hour confusion be costly currency traders suspecting mr. major n't defend pound strenuously sent british currency sharply lower friday dollar west german mark analysts expect further jitters week continuing slide pound force government push rise base rate currently % shove weak economy recession economists have been anticipating slump months now say be deeper longer had thought britain economy is developing rapidly no-growth says j. paul horne international economist smith barney harris upham co. paris mild slowdown probably have run course early economists say grueling downturn now expected stretch recovery be hampered britain major trading partners europe are enjoying robust economic activity cool as expected late leave mrs. thatcher little room maneuver tories win next election voters need sense economic improvement year beforehand though mrs. thatcher does n't need call election june prefer doing so late economy shows sign turning year time be very vulnerable says john barnes lecturer london school economics 's equally pressing deadline government define monetary economic ties rest european community has sent mixed signals willingness take part exchange-rate mechanism european monetary system links major ec currencies june ec summit mrs. thatcher appeared ease opposition full ems membership saying britain join once inflation rate fell ec liberalized capital movements then government has left observers wondering ever meant join sir alan assailed monetary arrangement half-baked article being published american economics journal produced little reaction boss reinforcing speculation government use conditions pretext avoiding full ems membership departure mr. lawson sir alan tug-of-war ems continue sir geoffrey howe deputy prime minister lawson ally ems has signaled continue pressing early membership immediate concern is thatcher government continue mr. lawson policy tracking monetary policies west german bundesbank responding kind frankfurt authorities move interest rates mrs. thatcher does n't like taking orders foreigners says tim congdon economist gerrard national holding plc conservatives rally mrs. thatcher crisis many harbor hopes last week debacle prompt change n't have more wayward behavior says sir peter hordern backbench tory member parliament party is fed sackings good people 's unrealistic expectation as long decade mrs. thatcher declared did n't want debate cabinet wanted strong government weekend said did n't intend change style denied is authoritarian nonsense told interviewer yesterday london weekend television am staying own sweet reasonable self