richard breeden had n't noticed new desk had just telephone lines phone was only second full day chairman securities exchange commission lack lines became painfully apparent stock market lurched 190-point free fall oct. mr. breeden found scurrying sixth floor sec desk new york stock exchange was open line assistant office commodity futures trading commission was connected third room computer monitored market moves other anxious calls pouring recalls either have disconnect new york stock exchange go secretary desk n't happen again now are more lines connected chairman office market-monitoring computer has been moved next desk 's part new command center changes office layout illustrate mr. breeden stance nation top securities regulator predecessor david ruder was faced crisis stock markets soon coming office mr. ruder crash damaged saying rather offhandedly markets be closed mr. breeden is turning market drop own advantage using further agenda sec interview congressional testimony repeatedly points recent 190-point plunge dow jones industrial average second-largest ever evidence need congress give sec ability better monitor leveraged buy-out loan activity brokerage firms track big trades market veteran financial crisis savings-and-loan bailout mr. breeden wants have sec regulate securities issued banks s&ls more broadly wants modernize regulation eliminating barriers commercial investment banking helping u.s. financial firms compete global market believes tax code encourages use debt instead stock fuel leveraged buy-outs area sec does n't regulate directly wields influence wall street congress also mr. ruder mr. breeden appears be position get somewhere agenda former white house aide worked closely congress is savvy ways washington 's more coming months likely offer opportunity obtain own majority five-member commission enabling avoid dissension frustrated predecessor mr. breeden 39-year-old securities lawyer has skirted heftier issues facing financial markets instance has n't stated clear position high-risk high-yield junk bonds area growing concern turmoil junk market spills stocks be waiting see results several pending sec studies junk market liquidity disclosure rules also has kept close wrap names people consideration crucial post enforcement director commission job vacant summer mr. breeden selection be scrutinized important signal strength commitment continuing sec high-profile pursuit insider trading market manipulation wall street congress seems likely let new chairman have way while members senate banking committee know mr. breeden working thrift-bailout bill relationship generally remains warm indeed mr. breeden confirmation hearing last month senators asked introduce children separate times more often asked qualifications job days mr. breeden is winning praise washington wall street behind-the-scenes role monitoring friday-the-13th market plunge following monday harrowing morning session regulator charged restoring investor confidence mr. breeden avoided making market-jarring comments worked gather information critical wall street other government agencies not everyone has jumped breeden bandwagon however washington contend 's too soon tell mr. breeden help hinder sec do n't think was real test says congressional aide was fairly stressful weekend sense is had n't had richard breeden there n't have made much difference sec agency covets independence mr. breeden be too much washington insider note has adorned office photos george bush featuring first dog millie worry mr. breeden also roll told do so white house mr. breeden already has shown eagerness run sec way monday market rebound new york exchange spokesman told cable news network viewers industrial average had turned points stunned mr. breeden turned market-monitoring computer then was next desk showed djia up points sec staffers soon determined widely watched stock-market service quotron had miscalculated industrial average mr. breeden instructed sec staffers inform network was airing wrong number was plunge did n't happen says mr. breeden also is trying use far more catastrophic event california earthquake move rule change congress disaster closed pacific stock exchange stock options-trading operation forcing options be switched other exchanges temporarily obscure most investors question list options more exchange has aroused much interest congress mainly regional exchanges fear change bankrupt congressmen raised issue yesterday hearing mr. breeden not missing chance press agenda cited earthquake event contended simply shows vulnerability having listings only exchange