richard g. sim man credited transforming applied power inc. underachiever feisty player global market hydraulic tools hopes guide similar turnaround company latest acquisition barry wright corp 45-year-old former general electric co. executive figures be easier time analysts applauding acquisition say applied chief executive faces tough challenge integrating companies barry wright acquired applied makes computer-room equipment vibration-control systems watertown mass. company sales have been dormant profits have dropped last year earnings including restructuring gain were far year-earlier spurring barry wright sales were mr. sim pare costs product line question is long 's going take barry wright make contribution says f. john mirek analyst blunt ellis loewi milwaukee answer help determine applied continues reach ambitious goals set mr. sim butler wis. manufacturer went public share august mr. sim goal then was per-share price strong earnings growth helped achieve price far ahead schedule august stock has softened trading around share last week closing yesterday national over-the-counter trading mr. sim has set fresh target share end reaching goal says robert t. foote applied chief financial officer require efficient reinvestment cash applied continuation healthy % rate return operating capital barry wright mr. sim sees situation very similar faced joined applied president chief operating officer applied then closely held company was stagnating management controlling family profitable was n't growing was n't providing satisfactory return invested capital says mr. sim is confident drive dominate certain niche markets work barry wright has applied also professes evangelical fervor develop corporate culture rewards managers produce decision-making is shared mr. sim considers new unit operations fundamentally sound adds barry wright has been fairly successful moving markets have n't interested larger competitors little patience businesses perform very satisfactorily mr. sim says about months things be moving right direction predicts mr. sim figures be easier turn barry wright 's now driver seat came applied did n't have power execute do today says was named chief executive officer applied became chairman last november applied mr. sim set growth first objective took company public offering netted applied about helped launch company acquisition program sales climbed estimated fiscal ended aug. fiscal company expects earnings have marched steadily upward recent years reached about share fiscal year just ended up fiscal