ekco group inc. nashua n.h. expects report net income third quarter ended oct. fell % % cents share year earlier robert stein president chief executive officer attributed expected decline partly effects two-week strike last month company masillon ohio bakeware facility softer-than-expected orders early september also played role said interview mr. stein said is reasonably confident earnings full year exceed cents share require fourth-quarter net more cents cents share assuming mr. stein third-quarter estimate proves accurate year-earlier fourth quarter company had profit cents share third-quarter revenue is expected be up year earlier according neil gordon treasurer year-earlier periods do n't reflect results company woodstream corp. unit acquired last january include canadian operations were sold end august october traditionally is busiest season bakeware business many retailers use goods autumn promotional items mr. stein said retailers perhaps anxious minimizing inventories appear have held back orders september have been ordering more heavily october mr. stein said woodstream is marginally profitable has n't performed as well expected woodstream victor-brand mousetraps other pest-control products are doing very well plastic storage-case products are poised growth said unit third segment wildlife traps is suffering depressed market ekco is seeking sell segment said mr. stein said expects profit be higher reflecting number measures taken acquisition ekco housewares late prior acquiring housewares business company was known centronics corp. centronics had been maker computer printers mr. stein other officers decided sell business japanese competitors grabbed dominant share market mr. stein said tighter operating controls have enabled ekco reduce inventory levels % % improve on-time delivery orders % % lower number labor hours required produce unit moving design new products in-house instead contracting work company also has been able come up designs be manufactured more efficiently said addition measures company spent heavily earlier year install displays customers retail outlets strategy mr. stein said has helped bolster awareness company brands ekco housewares operation makes kitchen tools gadgets as well bakeware factories u.s. canada main issue strike ohio facility was health-care benefits mr. stein said strike ended oct ekco continues seek further acquisitions consumer-products industry mr. stein said indicated ekco be interested acquiring company revenue range partly mass merchandisers increasingly want rely larger fewer suppliers