stock prices hovering record levels number companies have been announcing stock splits investors trying play angles find stock splits are lot cotton candy look tempting 's hardly substance even leave sticky problem form higher brokerage commissions stock split unaccompanied cash dividend increase is giving somebody singles bill 've got thicker billfold has economic significance whatsoever says leon cooperman partner goldman sachs co typical split company increases number shares has outstanding stockholder participating basis existing holdings 2-for-1 split example investor owned shares split have shares afterward stock price usually falls reflect greater number shares assuming other changes company companies usually split shares hope lower share price attract more individual investors increase trading volume improve stock liquidity theory is stock selling share be more affordable individuals selling more especially investors like buy round lots shares take l.a. gear inc. fast-growing designer marketer athletic footwear had 2-for-1 split last month main reason split was make stock more attractive retail buyer says elliott j. horowitz company executive vice president chief financial officer stock suddenly becomes more attractive masses n't boost price l.a. gear was selling share split was announced aug. then soared more share splitting late september yesterday stock closed mr. horowitz scoffs idea company price surge was caused split were that easy take stock think lot other companies be doing says split does create more demand stock says just do n't think 's much factor investment managers others agree stock split accompanied dividend increase pack powerful punch split has lasting impact stock price says mr. cooperman goldman sachs adds james l. cochrane senior vice president new york stock exchange 've done research shows split really does n't seem matter significantly even splits did affect stock prices academics argue be futile investors try take advantage view financial markets tend anticipate news thus impact split already be incorporated stock price time split was announced argue normally investor is n't able benefit buying company stock immediately news split says frank k. reilly notre dame professor finance co-author study splits time average investor hears news traders already have acted stock already has moved few money managers even say stock split sometimes represent sell signal remember old wall street adage buy rumor sell news says samuel thorne jr. managing director scudder stevens clark boston splits also mean bigger expense investors buy sell shares 's brokerage houses often calculate commission rates using complex formula based partly number shares being traded example merrill lynch official says firm commission shares stock be commission jump trade shares stock even dollar amount trade be exactly same large firm gave similar figures standard commission shares stock be commission jump trade shares stock stock splits are biggest ripoff wall street contends hans r. reinisch new york investor only thing changes split is brokerage commissions often go sharply 're active investor have take account transaction costs corporate executives also question idea more shares are better is warren e. buffett chairman chief executive officer berkshire hathaway inc. stock closed yesterday new york stock exchange share often are asked berkshire does not split stock wrote company annual report assumption question usually appears be split be pro-shareholder action disagree lengthy discussion followed mr. buffett said want shareholders think business owners intention staying long time want keep eyes focused business results not market prices underscoring feelings subject mr. buffett once sent birthday greeting friend wishing good health saying live berkshire splits still many companies like splits inexpensive marketing tool generates favorable publicity helps broaden shareholder base stock split is nice exercise cosmetics 's says james h. coxon senior vice president head common-stock division cigna investments inc 's small net positive improve marketability particular stock 's really very little significance split impact depend company involved price company stock says john p. rosenthal senior partner silberberg rosenthal co adds impact split really is very short-term advises michael metz managing director oppenheimer co just ignore splits view 're irrelevant long-term investor look only fundamentals company not splits stock