has n't been kellogg co. year oat-bran craze has cost world largest cereal maker market share company president quit suddenly now kellogg is indefinitely suspending work was be cereal plant company said was delaying construction current market conditions memphis tenn. facility was n't begin turning product decision reveal more pessimistic long-term outlook as well kellogg has n't been as successful capitalizing public health-oriented desire oat bran rival general mills inc. has been losing share ready-to-eat cereal market kellogg current share is believed be slightly % general mills share is about % led oat-based cheerios line general mills has gained estimated % share so far year mostly expense kellogg share point is about sales analysts say much kellogg erosion has been such core brands corn flakes rice krispies frosted flakes represent nearly one-third sales volume kellogg is so anxious turn corn flakes sales soon begin selling boxes as little cents trade sources say cheerios honey nut cheerios have eaten sales normally going kellogg corn-based lines simply are made oats says merrill lynch food analyst william maguire are not happy group people battle creek right now kellogg is based battle creek mich. city calls breakfast capital world analyst john c. maxwell jr. wheat first securities richmond va. recently went sell recommendation kellogg stock closed friday down cents new york stock exchange composite trading do n't think kellogg get back % year said kellogg main problem is life style people are reading boxes deciding want something healthy oats bran mr. maxwell said n't be surprised next years so general mills share increased % more announcing plant delay kellogg chairman william e. lamothe said cereal volume growth u.s. has not met expectations said construction n't resume market conditions warrant kellogg indicated has room grow adding facilities company has other u.s. plants including modern facility battle creek headquarters known building is add bran-processing rice-processing capacity year general mills meanwhile finds constrained boosting sales further plants are operating capacity large plant covington ga. is come line year kellogg officer asked not be named said memphis project was pulled reconsideration costs indication ambitious plans be scaled future construction initial cost estimates plant was have been built phases ranged company spokesman said was possible highly unlikely plant never be built regain leadership level have been we continue put new products marketplace need additional capacity look resuming involvement plan said new facility was have been world 's most advanced cereal manufacturing plant kellogg largest construction project company had retained fluor daniel unit fluor corp. general contractor recent weeks construction-industry sources reported early preparation work was slowing 185-acre site subcontractors said were told equipment orders be delayed fluor daniel already has reassigned most work crew sources said last friday announcement was first official word project was trouble company plans surge market share have been overly optimistic recently kellogg had been telling sales force wall street intended achieve % share market measured dollar volume called current market conditions highly competitive mr. lamothe kellogg chairman chief executive officer forecast earnings increase full year last year company earned share sales expected kellogg reported lower third-quarter earnings net fell % share share sales rose % company had one-time charge latest quarter covering disposition certain assets company n't elaborate citing competitive reasons