president bush travels costa rica today go little fanfare accompanies many foreign travels two-day trip still has managed fuel controversy administration policies central america conservatives say mr. bush n't make trip participate costa rica celebration years democracy critics object mr. bush participation meeting includes nicaraguan president daniel ortega guests addition argue n't help washington standing region trumpeting u.s. commitment democracy less month administration played ineffectual role failed coup attempt panama believe do more damage good legitimize people daniel ortega says curtin windsor served u.s. ambassador costa rica reagan administration mr. windsor other analysts connected conservative heritage foundation fears gathering leaders mostly central american nations force mr. bush explain redeem wake charges u.s. failed do enough aid removal panamanian dictator manuel noriega same time liberal moderate democrats note irony mr. bush joining celebration costa rican democracy time administration has sought sharp cuts u.s. aid tiny country administration proposed only so-called economic support funds costa rica year down u.s. provided last year administration said improvements costa rica economic condition warrant cut aid country uses mainly make payments foreign debt costa rican officials argue recent drop coffee prices combined country continuing struggle reinvigorate economy make support as necessary ever are crossing river need little more help get other side said rodrigo sotela economic affairs specialist costa rican embassy washington democrats argue costa rica deserves more assistance same reason mr. bush is attending celebration weekend reward country stability region wracked turmoil efforts promote peace nicaragua however peace efforts costa rican president oscar arias have n't always helped country cause washington mr. arias long-time refusal support u.s. campaign leftist nicaragua earned ire reagan white house more recently insisted signing five-nation agreement intended disarm nicaragua u.s.-backed contra rebels faster bush administration prefer think bush going there is helpful sign said sen. terry sanford d. n.c member foreign relations committee pushed provide costa rica same amount aid received last year lawmakers houses support higher level administration officials defend mr. bush decision make trip acknowledge president attend several meals working session also attended mr. ortega insist mr. bush n't be extending nicaraguan leader special courtesies administration also made clear continuing distate leftist nicaraguan government recent days endorsing package electoral aid nicaraguan opposition renewing u.s. trade embargo country continuing complain country supports rebel groups region officials also insist mr. bush use trip highlight own initiatives pushing democracy region fighting illegal drugs assisting less developed countries let say is symbolic component trip secretary state james baker told reporters wednesday n't be formal resolutions communiques do n't think still see opportunity discuss many many very important issues