iverson technology corp. was fastest-growing small companies america last year mclean va. company modifies computers keep sensitive military data unfriendly hands earnings soared six-fold seven-fold increase revenue ran buzz saw defense department spending freeze iverson earnings plunged % troubles continued year first half profit plunged % iverson technology is many small defense contractors besieged slowdown defense spending larger contractors broad enough base weather downturn easily companies are suffering big drops business once-lucrative specialty niches massive military market erode even disappear companies only recently were thriving find scrambling survive varied strategies suggest is more way respond disaster 's too soon tell changes pay many companies instinctive first response is cut costs others are trying find specialty defense work spared slowdown new niches created budget-cutting more venturesome businesses are applying skills commercial fields erc international inc. provides professional technical services military is refining defense niche not retreating quadrupling annual earnings years fairfax va. company posted % drop earnings year first half belief development advanced military technology remain top defense department priority erc last year acquired w.j. schafer associates technical scientific analysis company contracts strategic defense initiative sdi anti-missile program recently awarded w.j. schafer contracts totaling erc chairman founder jack aalseth says bought company more technology customer unc inc. annapolis md. contractor earned revenue has gone even further realigning military business orders aircraft submarine parts dwindled years steady growth ended % drop income year first half company hit new strategy defense department is so intent saving money not make money trend company current efforts repairing old parts % cost replacing unc also is selling new parts needed directly military instead prime contractor as little one-third government cost company is running program train army helicopter pilots is also taking maintenance certain navy aircraft % fewer people military used approach tiny iverson technology is trying resume growth braving new world commercial products donald iverson chairman says hopes company eventually get up half revenue commercial markets now says 're looking buying small companies niche markets personal-computer business earlier month mr. iverson agreed buy exclusive rights software system developed visher systems inc. salt lake city product automates array functions performed small medium-size printing companies mr. iverson says are potential customers software washington d.c. area alone questech inc. falls church va. also has acquired companies military market moreover 's trying transfer skill designing military equipment commercial ventures partnership williamsburg va. unit shell oil co. recently patented process producing plastic food containers n't melt microwave ovens 're trying take imagination talent engineers come up new processes industry says vincent salvatori questech chief executive is effort branch out government is very difficult defense contractor mr. salvatori know instead helping company defense spending slowdown dynamic engineering inc. troubled subsidiary makes wind tunnels space industry contributed much questech loss revenue last year january mr. salvatori sold unit was first acquisition says was mistake companies are cutting costs hoping best telos corp. santa monica calif. provider software-development hardware-maintenance services military enjoyed steady growth year following tripling earnings doubling revenue years earnings company fiscal first quarter ended june plunged % one-time write-off booking nonexistent revenue was partly blame so were lower profits stingier contract army delays getting paid telos responded combining divisions reduce expenses bring more focus potentially fewer bidding opportunities says lin conger telos chairman controlling shareholder 's evident 're entering more competitive era says transtechnology corp. sherman oaks calif. defense contractor earned revenue provides more dramatic example cost-cutting company not only merged military-electronics manufacturing operations also closed unrelated plant makes ordnance devices used fighter planes missiles closing contributed loss fiscal first quarter ended july first quarterly loss ordnance business has been hurt very badly slowdown says arch scurlock transtechnology chairman n't say 're business 're not making as many pyrotechnic devices used