donald trump faced rising doubt bid american airlines parent amr corp. even united airlines buy-out came apart friday withdrew offer separately bankers representing group trying buy united parent ual corp. met other banks reviving purchase lower price possibly share lower bid face rejection ual board mr. trump vowed wednesday go forward bid said was dropping light recent change market conditions said now sell amr stake buy more shares make offer lower price manhattan real-estate developer acted ual buyers failed obtain financing earlier 300-a-share bid sparked selling panic snowballed 190-point drop friday dow jones industrial average news ual amr shares never reopened trading was halted friday ual announcement sent stocks nosediving composite trading new york stock exchange ual tumbled volume shares amr declined shares changed hands together stocks wreaked havoc takeover stock traders caused % drop dow jones transportation average second size only stock-market crash oct. said friday market debacle had given mr. trump excuse bail out offer showed signs stalling even problems emerged ual deal reaching intraday high day mr. trump disclosed bid oct. amr stock had retreated as low last week takeover stock traders had been betting mr. trump has record disclosing stakes companies are potential takeover targets then selling profit making bid still has n't proven mettle big-league take-out artist said airline analyst kevin murphy morgan stanley co 's done thing buy little bit company then trade 's written book art deal does n't just follow through things mr. trump withdrew bid amr board is due meet tomorrow ever formally considered amr had weighed wide range possible responses flat rejection recapitalizations leveraged buy-outs have included employees friendlier buyer such texas billionaire robert bass amr had also sought foil mr. trump congress lobbying legislation have bolstered authority transportation department reject airline buy-outs yesterday mr. trump tried put blame collapse ual deal congress saying was rushing bill protect amr executives believe perception legislation area be hastily approved contributed collapse ual transaction resulting disruption financial markets experienced past friday mr. trump wrote members congress amr declined comment mr. trump did n't respond requests interviews mr. trump never said much amr stock had bought only holdings were substantial however only received federal clearance buy more stock sept. price rose share then bid oct. price fluctuated attempt persuade investors bid was n't just stock play mr. trump promised last week notify market selling shares amr was trading yesterday withdrawal announcement then immediately fell assuming paid rough average price share assuming did n't sell announcement reached market mr. trump be sitting modest loss stock analysts said amr chairman robert crandall seize opportunity presented stock price drop protect nation largest airline defensive transaction such sale stock friendly holder company employees however other knowledgeable observers said believed mr. crandall amr board well decide tough out taking extra steps analysts said believed mr. trump towering ego had been viewed reason believe n't back out come back lower bid ray neidl dillon read co. said mr. trump is stepping back waiting dust settle 'm sure still wants amr others remained skeptical was never sure donald trump really wanted take amr said john mattis bond analyst shearson lehman hutton inc happened united was gracious way bow out mr. trump never obtained financing bid skepticism leave even greater credibility problem return handicap effort oust board proxy fight meanwhile citicorp chase manhattan corp. lead lenders ual buy-out met other banks yesterday determine be willing finance buy-out lower price officials familiar talks said citicorp had discussed lowering offer share said price was talking point decision has been made share group have borrow banks first ual deal unraveled citibank chase n't raise citibank chase had agreed commit said were highly confident raising together citicorp chase received fees raise rest financing other banks balked low interest rate banking fees ual group was willing pay officials familiar bank talks said ual buy-out group ual pilots management british airways plc is now willing pay higher bank fees interest is n't likely boost equity contribution is group likely come forward revised offer next hours hopes many traders group advisers want make certain have firm bank commitments second time around even buy-out group is able obtain financing transaction still faces obstacles ual board reject new price as too low especially are n't competing bids los angeles investor marvin davis 275-a-share offer was rejected ual board has n't shown signs pursuing 300-a-share back-up bid made last month addition coalition labor management longtime enemies joined forces only threat mr. davis bid break apart now group resilience gets first test today top pilot union leaders convene chicago previously scheduled meeting union chairman f.c rick dubinsky faces tough task explaining banks refused finance buy-out members approved overwhelmingly last week pilot union is vowing pursue acquisition board decides board rejects reduced bid decides explore other alternatives transform has been harmonious process adversarial one pilots play hardball noting are crucial sale restructuring refuse fly airplanes were insist low bid say share board n't be able obtain higher offer other bidders banks hesitate finance transaction pilots oppose also ual chairman stephen wolf other ual executives have joined pilots bid board be forced exclude deliberations order be fair other bidders cost chance influence outcome perhaps join winning bidder