ralph brown was feet minnesota jets falcon 20 flamed feet says co-pilot were looking interstate cornfield land feet engines restarted knowing mechanics probably ground repairs mr. brown skipped stop nearby chicago set course get load few parcels memphis package-sorting hub time had been little less gung-ho have gotten thing ground headed nearest bar mr. brown says flies federal express corp. perhaps closest thing corporate america green berets federal employees work long hours seem thrive stress racing clock mr. brown sometimes go surprising lengths meet overarching corporate goal delivering goods time are tribute federal management company founding years ago has had way work force unusual feat contentious transportation industry soon change month federal pilots including acquired along tiger international inc. february decide elect powerful air line pilots association bargaining agent election bring first major union federal u.s. operations has pitted new hires devoted veterans such mr. brown has also rattled federal strongly anti-union management is already contending melding far-flung operations falling profits union sooner later has have adversary has have victory frederick w. smith federal chairman chief executive says disdain formula do n't have losers competition managers really fear is pro-union movement spread pilots federal transportation law government mediator is attempting reconcile melding tiger job classifications federal depending outcome merged company face union elections fall airplane mechanics ramp workers stock clerks flight dispatchers groups constitute % work force unions have profound effect whole culture company says bernard la londe professor ohio state university columbus federal consultant culture carefully crafted mr. smith leaves little room unions founding company charismatic vietnam vet is still only years old has fostered ethos combat flights are missions mr. smith managers have times been called ho chi minh guerrillas bravo zulu award navy accolade job well done is bestowed federal workers surpass call duty competitors are known enemy reinforce employees dedication mr. smith pays well also lets workers vent steam elaborate grievance procedure perk fly free empty cockpit seats gives pep talks periodic family briefings beamed internationally fxtv company own television network many workers mr. smith damn-the-torpedoes attitude has caught james cleveland courier earned bravo zulu figuring get major customer 1,100-parcel-a-week load doorstep a.m. considers far more courier do n't just hand customer package 's just beginning says essence run show david sanders longtime pilot bristles mere suggestion union tamper flight schedule is america says nobody has right tell much work such attitudes have given federal flexibility not only rapidly implement new technology keep work force extraordinarily lean company deliberately understaffs stretching employees schedules limit couriers work as many hours week autumn rush leave early slack times still being assured minimum paycheck pilots well routinely fly overtime ensure none are furloughed seasonal lows operational freedom has also given federal leg up archrival united parcel service inc. nation largest employer united brotherhood teamsters members ups n't discuss labor practices according mr. cleveland former ups employee others union work rules prohibit ups drivers doing more carrying packages customers vans ups drivers are n't permitted load own vehicles depot say couriers packages often get buried load are delivered late labor problems are last thing mr. smith needs right now tiger acquisition has brought federal long way becoming global player wants be also has brought problems more doubled federal long-term debt thrust company unknown territory heavy cargo suddenly expanded landing rights countries federal own had n't been doing very well overseas had hemorrhaged attempt get asia treaty restrictions forced fly planes half-empty certain routes routes south america company had backup jets ensure delivery planes were grounded europe business suffered federal bought several local companies only have managers quit other problems squeezed federal profit margins last year % down more % annually first decade earnings have plummeted too past quarters fiscal first period ended aug. profit fell % cents share mostly tiger merger federal says federal stock price however has held well driven part general run-up airline stocks analysts say trading as low share may federal shares have rallied as high new york stock exchange composite trading closed friday down cents day 's certain irony fact federal express faces first union problems result tiger purchase tiger was founded band gungho airmen had airlifted supplies hump india china world war ii early mr. smith modeled fledgling company tiger innovation hub-and-spoke containerized-cargo operations early on tiger workers unionized federal never have federal express officials acknowledge mistakes drive overseas say pay eventually analysts expect federal earnings improve again fiscal third quarter ending feb. company begin benefiting tiger extra flights back-up planes landing rights then expect cost integrating carriers continue crimping profits now union issue is most nettlesome federal tiger problems management believes encouraging dialogue managers workers mr. smith does n't countenance considers insubordination large group pilots once signed petitions opposing work-rule compensation changes called meeting company hangar dressed challenging authority then made most changes pilots say sort approach however has n't worked addition tiger workers had battled tiger management years givebacks were union members day merger most unions were automatically decertified soon merger moreover federal management asked tiger pilots sign agreement stating be fired time cause notice pilots refused company retracted mr. smith angered federal pilots too haste seal deal tiger chairman saul steinberg last august mr. smith ignored promise had made own pilots years ago fliers acquired future mergers be end-tailed put bottom pilot seniority list determines work schedules pay career options tiger merger agreement stipulated lists be combined basis tenure mr. smith is trying hard allay anger even pro-union pilots say charisma popularity many former military fliers be tough beat lot people are identifying vote representation vote fred smith says j.x. gollich tiger-turned-federal pilot union activist mr. smith other top federal executives have met tiger workers los angeles ohio new york alaska asia europe recently have appeared few weeks talk-show type videos countering pro-union arguments video mr. smith defended agreement merge pilot-seniority lists said mr. steinberg had insisted merger talks move quickly regulators well have quashed deal tiger pilots had n't been protected said furthermore mr. smith added contract pilots says manage fleet operations advice does n't give particular group ability veto change already fight has been costly seniority-list controversy along job-classification dispute has been turned mediator meanwhile company is operating separate pilot groups seniority lists is costing federal big number says james barksdale executive vice president chief operating officer issue has also cost federal management lot good will old pilots were willing mistreat had n't shown moxie resistance says william queenan dc-10 pilot 14-year federal veteran adds john poag 727 captain past chairman company-sponsored flight advisory board 've made magnanimous gestures flying tiger pilots nothing such animosity prove pivotal union vote large majority former tiger fliers support union according union study most federal pilots are believed opposed is unclear just much loyalty mr. smith has been eroded fight has turned ugly pilots least has shattered mr. smith worked so hard build anti-union pilots have held ballot-burning parties younger pilots say have had endure anti-union harangues senior pilots flying country now least competition is n't only enemy barney barnhardt 727 captain leader pro-union forces said has received anonymous death threats been challenged fight tire irons colleague pilots are extremely says sigh