freight rates declining most decade competition spurred deregulation are bottoming turning upward threatening fuel inflation trucking shipping air-freight companies have announced rate increases scheduled fall early next year reflecting higher costs tightened demand freight transport major shippers say expect freight rates rise least as fast inflation maybe faster next few years 's big change recent years freight haulage was bright spot u.s. productivity helping restrain inflation make u.s. industry more competitive abroad demand has caught supply certain types freight transportation rates are starting move up rate close slightly more inflation rate said clifford sayre director logistics du pont co shippers surveyed recently ohio state university said expect freight-transport storage distribution costs rise about % year only % shippers polled expected freight-transport costs decrease compared % had looked freight transport reduce costs past years is first year transportation deregulation have had such dramatic broad-based upturn perceived transportation rates said bernard lalonde transportation logistics professor ohio state columbus deregulation railroads trucking companies began enabled shippers bargain transportation carriers use equipment more efficiently leading overcapacity were eager fill shippers cut about annual inter-city truck rail costs about about % gross national product down % gnp much inefficiency squeezed out freight-transport system rising costs are likely be reflected directly higher freight rates shippers are saying party 's over said mr. lalonde shippers n't be able look transportation-cost savings have last years transport rates n't be opportunity offsetting cost increases other segments economy robert delaney consultant arthur d. little inc. cambridge mass. said 've gotten benefits deregulation freight-cost reductions now are starting see real freight-rate increases carriers replace equipment pay higher fuel costs pay more labor see carriers try recoup price cutting occurred previously not everyone believes good times are over shippers 's still lot pressure rates rail truck said gerard mccullough lecturer transportation massachusetts institute technology less-than-truckload companies carry freight several shippers truck trailer discounted away % rate increase implemented last april carriers were competing fiercely market share railroad-rate increases are likely be restrained weakening rail-traffic levels keen competition freight trucks official consolidated freightways inc. menlo park calif. less-than-truckload carrier said rate discounting industry has begun stabilize consolidated freightways plans raise rates % late year early next year least competitors have announced similar increases truckers are trying send signals need stop bloodletting forget market share go higher rates said michael lloyd analyst salomon bros shippers are getting feeling have played trucker as much said air-freight carriers raised rates u.s. products going pacific asia about % earlier month japan air lines said plans boost rates further % next years such rate increases increase total cost u.s. products slow rate increase u.s. exports said richard connors senior vice president yusen air sea service u.s.a. inc. u.s. air-freight-forwarding subsidiary nippon yusen kaisha japan ship companies carrying bulk commodities such oil grain coal iron ore have been able increase rates last couple years bulk shipping rates have increased % % past few months said salomon mr. lloyd ship lines carrying containers are also trying raise rates carriers boosted rates more % north atlantic u.s. europe last september hoping partly restore rates earlier levels ship lines operating pacific plan raise rates containers carrying u.s. exports asia about % effective next april