time warner inc. is considering legal challenge tele-communications inc. plan buy half showtime networks inc. move lead all-out war cable industry most powerful players time is also fighting transaction other fronts attempting discourage other cable operators joining tele-communications investors showtime cable-tv industry executives say time officials declined comment last week tele-communications agreed pay viacom inc. % stake showtime subsidiary is distant second time home box office delivery pay-tv networks cable subscribers tele-communications u.s. largest cable company said seek other cable partners join investment tele-communications is hbo largest customer have number other business relationships earlier year time even discussed bringing tele-communications investor hbo executives companies said purchase showtime stake is direct slap face said senior time executive time is expected mount legal challenge u.s. district court new york viacom may filed antitrust suit charging time hbo monopolizing pay-tv business trying crush competition showtime executives involved plotting time defense say is now preparing countersuit naming viacom tele-communications defendants executives say time seek break transaction is consummated seek constraints prevent tele-communications dropping hbo cable systems favor showtime viacom officials declined comment jerome kern tele-communications chief outside counsel said was n't aware time legal plans said effort time characterize tele-communications investment showtime anti-competitive be pot calling kettle black 's hard see investment largest cable operator weaker networks is anti-competitive stronger networks is owned second largest cable operator mr. kern said addition owning hbo subscribers time warner separately operates cable-tv system serving about cable-tv subscribers tele-communications controls close cable subscribers viacom has about suit time viacom says ownership cable systems cable-programming networks gives company too much market power time argues joining tele-communications viacom has potentially more power particularly viacom also owns cable networks mtv vh-1 nick nite ironically tele-communications time have often worked closely cable business together control nearly % turner broadcasting systems inc. tele-communications has % stake time warner has % stake time merger warner communications inc. relations have become strained company worries other is becoming too powerful too vertically integrated meanwhile legal observers say tele-communications investment other developments are weakening viacom antitrust suit time viacom accuses time suit refusing carry showtime sister service movie channel time manhattan cable tv system nation largest urban systems yesterday manhattan cable announced launch showtime nov. subscribers showtime has also accused hbo locking lion share hollywood movies signing exclusive contracts major studios showtime has continued sign new contracts hollywood studios yesterday announced buy movies columbia pictures entertainment inc. currently has non-exclusive arrangement hbo