wall street yesterday northern california killer earthquake was just chance make buck opening bell investors quickly began singling shares companies expected profit suffer way california disaster including insurers construction-related companies refiners housing lenders brokerage houses jumped in touting post-quake demand stocks kidder peabody co. set toll-free hot line san franciscans need emergency investment advice help transferring funds wall street thinks everything terms money says tom gallagher senior oppenheimer co. trader however added such event-driven trading moves typically last only few hours are often made full information most popular plays day were insurance companies such general re corp. rose nac re corp. up american international group inc. up cigna corp. up cents yesterday brokerage firm conning co. said insurers use earthquake excuse raise insurance rates ending long price wars bullish theory surfaced insurance stocks initially fell indicating investors thought quake cost insurers lot money fact fireman fund corp. ended day off cents said earthquake damage slightly hurt fourth-quarter profit prospect rebuilding northern california investors bid cement-makers calmat co. up lone star industries inc. up bridge road builders had field day including kasler corp. up guy f. atkinson co. up morrison knudsen corp. reported higher third-quarter earnings yesterday up fluor corp. construction engineering firm gained cents home-building stocks were mixed bag timber stocks got big boost georgia pacific corp. up maxxam inc. up reported strong profits merrill lynch co. touted georgia-pacific louisiana pacific corp. willamette industries inc. best post-quake plywood plays other gainers were companies more undamaged california refineries tosco corp. jumped chevron corp. temporary pipeline shutdown rose meanwhile shares big housing lenders got hit likelihood lenders collateral people homes suffered physical damage perhaps loss value wells fargo co. fell cents bankamerica corp. fell cents california thrift stocks also fell including golden west financial corp. h.f. ahmanson co. reported lower earnings yesterday property values did n't go up california yesterday says money manager pacific gas electric co. fell cents power generators was damaged company said n't be financial impact pacific telesis group lost cents computer failure delayed earnings announcement investors think have extra costs repair damaged telephone lines heavy construction property-casualty insurance forest products were best performing industry groups dow jones equity market index yesterday