retailers christmas not halloween promises be year spookiest season many retailers fear price war erupt cash-strapped companies such campeau corp. slash tags spur sales concerns stock market doubts economy general rising competition catalog companies also haunt store operators profits christmas be attack retailer asserts norman abramson president chief operating officer clothestime inc. off-price chain even is n't widespread discounting outlook industry profits is n't good management horizons forecasts % profit decline non-auto retailers year annual drops averaged % last half years retailing has been mild recession says carl steidtmann chief economist columbus ohio consulting firm year many stores are entering christmas season turmoil bonwit teller b. altman parent l.j. hooker corp. is operating chapter federal bankruptcy code b.a.t industries plc healthy saks fifth avenue marshall field chains are auction block campeau bloomingdale is also block industry observers expect wide divergence performance stores state confusion are likely fare poorly lose customers stable chains such limited inc. may department stores co. dillard department stores inc. do well are going be very clear winners very clear losers says cynthia turk touche ross co. retail consultant says mr. steidtmann 'm looking bi-polar christmas economists expect general merchandise sales fourth quarter rise % % year-ago figures mr. steidtmann predicts healthy stores hawking mostly apparel ring gains as much % % troubled chains see sales drop as much % believes managers distracted fears future allow stores get sloppy thin merchandise selections most troubled chains are also expected hurt sales catalog companies are likely pose bigger threat stores year particularly december more catalog outfits are promoting low-cost federal express service guarantees pre-christmas delivery orders made certain date traditionally consumers were concerned ordering first december did n't believe get christmas says adam strum chairman wine enthusiast inc. sells wine cellars accessories mail using federal express delivery last year mr. strum says december was biggest month even sears roebuck co. is getting act offering first time have federal express deliver toys ordered dec. wish book catalog k mart corp. chairman joseph e. antonini summed outlook christmas season not troublesome 's not predicting blockbuster is more optimistic months ago employment remains strong inflation low other retailers are also preparing ho-hum holiday philip m. hawley chairman carter hawley hale stores inc. expects sales department stores open least year rise modest % % last year totals company industry general 'm not looking runaway christmas says is n't real boom holiday season eyes says woolworth corp. chairman harold e. sells is n't going be bust either mr. sells expects fourth-quarter sales company woolworth stores includes kinney foot locker shoe stores other specialty chains rise pretty much line year-to-date increases % % estimate includes results new stores consumer poll conducted early september leo j. shapiro associates market researcher based chicago also suggests modest holiday survey respondents % said expect spend less buying christmas gifts year last year % said expect spend more % said gift budget stay same results are almost identical shapiro september numbers retailers get boost year calendar christmas falls monday creating big last-minute weekend opportunity stores most stay open late saturday night open doors again sunday many consumers probably use extra time put purchasing last minute hear get december is sales are sluggish predicts woolworth mr. sells week ending 24th is going save entire month everyone