mips computer systems inc. today unveil new general-purpose computer compete more expensive machines companies such sun microsystems inc. digital equipment corp closely held sunnyvale calif. company also announce agreement supply computers control data corp. sell mips machines own label new mips machine called rc6280 cost basic system computer processes instructions second uses only central processing chip many rival machines using several processors machine employs reduced instruction-set computing risc technology price analyst familiar machine said computer offers times performance similar machines price range 's tremendously high-performing product said sandy gant analyst market-research firm infocorp machine is part effort mips establish supplier computers not just integrated-circuit technology mips also wants wedge markets other traditional risc applications such engineering mips said new machine also be used businesses communications clearly demonstrates mips is systems company rather just chip company said mips vice president john hime control data deal is boon mips gives five-year-old company more ally battles more established electronic concerns such sun hewlett-packard co. motorola inc. intel corp. emerging market risc machines risc technology speeds computer simplifying internal software mips expects revenue year big-name allies such control data are essential attract software developers company risc architecture thing says mips is 're roll right now said ms. gant infocorp 're getting major wins added last month example mips agreed supply computers nixdorf computer ag west germany france groupe bull sony corp. tandem computers inc. digital equipment have agreed sell mips computers companies such japan nec corp. west germany siemens a.g. have agreed make mips chips license today agreement gives control data machine compete digital other general-purpose computer makers said john logan computer-market analyst aberdeen group inc. boston machine is essentially mainframe computer said suddenly cdc control data has competitive product fight back vax9000 machine digital announced last month added control data based minneapolis minn. expects sales mips systems including new rc6280 amount more end mips said nixdorf bull others also sell versions machine said mips president robert miller mips start shipping new machine first quarter said machine uses single processor makes easier program competing machines using several processors computer process calculations called floating-point operations second machine run software written other mips computers company said