time warner inc. sony corp. be today public enemies entertainment giants end up becoming partners number ventures part settlement acrimonious legal dispute hollywood producers peter guber jon peters warner bros. studio sony signaled are close settlement yesterday asking los angeles superior court postpone hearing scheduled tomorrow warner request preliminary injunction blocking mr. guber mr. peters taking top posts columbia pictures entertainment inc separate statements sides said want have further discussions sony is acquiring columbia guber-peters entertainment co. separate transactions valued more warner communications inc. is being acquired time warner has filed breach-of-contract suit sony producers warner has five-year exclusive contract mr. guber mr. peters requires make movies exclusively warner bros. studio sides legal battle have hurled accusations duplicity other weeks warner sony have accused other trying sabotage other prospects success entertainment business amount little more posturing have continued on-again off-again settlement talks last few weeks people familiar talks say matter be resolved week warner sony declined comment terms settlement discussions people familiar talks said warner is n't expected get cash settlement instead sony is likely agree let warner participate certain businesses such record club sony cbs records unit warner has surpassed sony largest record company does n't have powerful world-wide record club cbs sides are also discussing certain business ventures involving cable rights columbia movies addition sony is expected agree swap columbia % stake sprawling burbank calif. studio warner columbia share exchange old mgm studio lot warner acquired purchase lorimar telepictures corp still be tough have smooth partnership anything wake sworn affidavits filed last week example came cbs records chairman walter yetnikoff head committee oversee sony entertainment division including records movies affidavit mr. yetnikoff accused warner chairman steven j. ross having antisony anti-japanese bias said mr. ross had tried talk out letting sony buy cbs records years ago reason mr. ross be chairman co-chief executive officer time warner merger is complete denied own affidavit called mr. yetnikoff remarks vicious claims reckless irresponsible baseless saying warner leadership has started number businesses japan mr. ross also said enjoys warm professional personal relationships japanese executives including sony chairman akio morita has visited home here acrimony mr. ross mr. yetnikoff officials time side time warner have reportedly been increasingly interested settlement yield attractive business opportunities time executives such company president n.j nicholas eventually be co-chief executive time warner mr. ross have personal relationships ego stake fight guber-peters duo were never directly drawn fray talks sides unravel course have more once sony announced plans hire mr. guber mr. peters sides appear be more willing now meet other terms resolve issue warner has said wanted producers fulfill terms contract producers said sworn court declarations did n't believe relationship be repaired acrimony legal battle settlement is also expected exclude mr. guber mr. peters projects were working warner guber-peters duo have projects various stages development production warner including bonfire vanities bright shining lie does n't mean mr. guber mr. peters not eventually get hands projects studios develop hundreds movies produce only year once studio chooses not actually make movie is development producers are typically free take elsewhere mr. guber mr. peters also almost certainly n't be able participate future sequels batman blockbuster hit produced warner acquiring guber-peters entertainment sony actually get piece profits batman publicly held concern gets certain revenue movies mr. guber mr. peters produce producers own combined % stake guber-peters