supreme court let stand new york court ruling manufacturers drug once used prevent miscarriages share liability injuries deaths maker individual dose is unknown high court action refusing hear appeals several drug companies is likely have significant impact several levels most immediate effect is new york former manufacturers anti-miscarriage drug des synthetic female hormone diethylstilbestrol face prospect shared liability damages many des lawsuits pending state lawsuits stemmed development cancer other problems daughters women took drug broader scale ruling encourage other states courts adopt logic new york court not only des cases other product-related lawsuits as well new york court appeals ruling parallels decision california supreme court requiring shared liability manufacturers injuries n't be determined company is fault paul rheingold new york lawyer represents des victims said before new york ruling only states washington wisconsin had followed california decision now new york decision has been left intact other states follow suit generally new york california go way has tremendous influence other states especially small ones said mr. rheingold high court refused hear appeals rexall drug co. went business was taken rxdc liquidating trust e.r. squibb sons inc. unit squibb corp. eli lilly co appeals involved des was approved food drug administration use prevent miscarriages pregnancy fda banned use des studies linked cancer other problems daughters women took drug lawsuits harm caused des have flooded federal state courts past decade many cases lawsuit was filed long after drug was used cancer daughters was typically not detected years is way prove several companies manufactured doses consumed certain women traditional legal theories inability prove company manufactured drug caused injury death lead lawsuit being dismissed ruling last april new york court said producers anti-miscarriage drug share liability manufacturer specific dose n't be determined company share liability be based share national des market new york court also upheld state law passed extending year statute limitations filing des lawsuits effect is lawsuits have been barred were filed too late proceed because one-year extension rexall drug co. tigue e.r. squibb sons inc. hymowitz eli lilly co. hymowitz government contractors high court leaving intact damage award general dynamics corp. declined resolve questions legal defense civil lawsuits often used government contractors last year supreme court defined companies such military contractors defend lawsuits deaths injuries asserting were simply following specifications federal government contract decision high court said company prove government approved precise specifications contract specifications were met government was warned dangers use equipment last february federal appeals court new orleans upheld damage award general dynamics rejecting company use government contractor defense appeals court said defense is valid only federal officials did more rubber stamp company design plans engaged substantive review evaluation par policy decision general dynamics appealed high court backed numerous business trade groups arguing appeals court definition restricts defense too severely general dynamics was sued families navy divers were killed re-entered submarine diving chamber accident was caused faulty operation valve federal district court awarded damages families appeals court affirmed award general dynamics corp. trevino court brief other action yesterday high court let stand mail fraud conspiracy conviction john lavery former vice president beech-nut nutrition corp. unit nestle s.a conviction stemmed federal charges consumer fraud sale phony infant apple juice lavery u.s left intact award damages dow chemical co. death oregon man exposure agent orange award was made federal court widow u.s. forest service employee contracted hodgkin disease using herbicides containing agent orange weed-killing program dow chemical co. greenhill