simmering feud thatcher government senior economic experts erupted abrupt resignation chancellor exchequer nigel lawson sending shock waves already shaken financial community prompting emergency cabinet shuffle prime minister margaret thatcher named foreign secretary john major succeed mr. lawson sir geoffrey howe deputy prime minister rushed statement house commons government economic monetary policies remain unchanged meanwhile sir alan walters mrs. thatcher controversial economic adviser mr. lawson nemesis also announced resignation pound has already slid about % west german mark recent weeks plunged further news late new york trading yesterday sterling was quoted down sharply late wednesday brokers were bracing grueling friday financial markets here 're going get major fall equity market gilt markets said gwyn hacche u.k. economist james capel co markets hate uncertainty howe statement thatcher government economic policy appeared be chaos major question is just government handle matters mr. lawson sir alan differed explosively men clashed bitterly importance exchange rates setting monetary policy wisdom britain fully joining european monetary system links together major currencies european community jolted surrounding confusion mrs. thatcher emerged undisputed command government economic program neil kinnock labor party leader dubbed 46-year-old mr. major lap dog unlikely veer boss 's strongly held views mr. lawson sometimes did standpoint financial markets however prime minister positions seem murky large part has presided dueling advisers last months do n't know thatcher stands said paul horne economist smith barney harris upham co. paris 's played cat-and-mouse game advisers sometimes arcane economic debates undergirded lawson-walters rift 57-year-old mr. lawson surprise departure boiled simple stand he-goes-or-i-go letter mrs. thatcher mr. lawson stated successful conduct economic policy is possible only is is seen be full agreement prime minister chancellor exchequer recent events have confirmed essential requirement not be satisfied so long alan walters remains personal economic adviser upheaval leaves thatcher government isolated european community months ago british prime minister senior cabinet members mr. lawson chancellor sir geoffrey then foreign secretary supported britain early entry ems mr. lawson cabinet sir geoffrey less-influential job deputy prime minister 's little counter mrs. thatcher innate suspicion ec exchange-rate mechanism sir alan brought back downing street last spring adviser adamantly opposed indeed final fracas lawson-walters battle involved ems sir alan also works washington d.c. consultant world bank fellow american enterprise institute said article be published u.s. economic journal ems was half-baked scoff coming man many consider mrs. thatcher most influential adviser sparked considerable worry not only conflicted mr. lawson views ran counter position mrs. thatcher took ec summit madrid last june there said britain join ems ec had completely liberalized restrictions capital movements exchange controls once britain inflation rate had fallen line rest ec economists expect conditions be met mr. lawson stated house commons debate week sir alan views are n't view government subsequent television interview said think is right advisers do not talk write public worn feud then made clear mrs. thatcher expected controversial adviser be ousted remarks commons yesterday afternoon prime minister disappointed has done past stated support mr. lawson insisted keeping adviser opposed disparaged policies ems views mr. major served mr. lawson deputy are n't fully known speaking house commons last night said mr. lawson was proud serve team proud has been remain good friend great extent downing street blow-up is result mrs. thatcher management approach fond playing senior advisers other prime minister has often allowed rivalries animosities bubble cabinet financial markets prefer clear message government economic priorities strategies spring thatcher government has instead broadcast cacophony mr. lawson carefully watched exchange rates stood ready increase u.k. interest rates pound slid too sharply dollar mark contrast sir alan was viewed free-floater was inclined let currency markets set level pound last summer skirmishing became obvious smith barney mr. horne said antipathies were adding confusion already murky situation sterling was becoming increasingly volatile currency question strategy having alternate economic adviser added mrs. thatcher ties sir alan were cemented first term straight-talking economist served years key adviser according former downing street aide then say get economics right get politics right craig forman richard e. rustin contributed article