newspaper publishers are reporting mixed third-quarter results aided favorable newsprint prices hampered flat declining advertising linage especially northeast adding unsteadiness industry seasonal retail ad spending patterns newspapers have been upset shifts ownership general hardships retail industry new york bonwit teller b. altman co. department stores have filed protection creditors chapter federal bankruptcy code r.h. macy co. bloomingdale saks fifth avenue department-store chains are sale many papers country are also faced slowdown classified-ad spending booming category newspapers recent years recently industry analysts believed decreases retail ad spending had bottomed fact increase year third fourth quarters bets are off analysts say shifting ownership retail chains improved paper prices help offset weakness linage retailers problems have affected amount ad linage usually run said edward j. atorino industry analyst salomon brothers inc retailers are just disarray instance gannett co. posted % gain net income total ad pages dropped usa today advertising revenue rose higher circulation rate base increased rates gannett daily non-daily newspapers reported % increase advertising circulation revenue total advertising linage was modestly lower classified-ad volume increased was softer demand retail national ad linage said john curley gannett chief executive officer usa today ad pages totaled quarter down % period was helped increased ad spending summer olympics usa today total paid ad pages year date totaled decrease % last year paper ad revenue increased % quarter % months months gannett net rose % share share revenue gained % dow jones co. third-quarter net income fell % year-earlier period net fell cents share cents share year-earlier period included one-time gain cents share revenue gained % drop profit reflected part continued softness financial advertising wall street journal barron magazine ad linage journal fell % third quarter affiliated publications inc. reversed year-earlier third quarter net loss publisher boston globe reported net cents share compared loss cents share third quarter william o. taylor parent chairman chief executive officer said earnings continued be hurt softness ad volume boston newspaper third-quarter profit estimates several companies are being strongly affected price newsprint last years has had several price increases supply crunch caused prices rise % metric ton analysts are encouraged do n't expect price increase rest year companies daily newspapers northeast need stable newsprint prices ease damage weak ad linage mr. atorino salomon brothers said estimates times mirror co. earnings were down third quarter soft advertising levels long island newsday hartford courant newspapers trouble east coast was likely offset improved ad linage los angeles times week also unveiled redesign new york times co. is expected report lower earnings third quarter continued weak advertising levels flagship new york times deep discounting newsprint affiliate forest products group times co. regional daily newspapers are holding well is little sign things improve new york market said alan kassan analyst shearson lehman hutton washington post co. is expected report improved earnings largely increased cable revenue publishing revenue helped improved retail market washington area according analysts profits were also helped successful cost-cutting measures newsweek news-weekly has faced heightened competition rival time magazine relatively flat magazine advertising market knight-ridder inc. is faced continued uncertainty pending joint operating agreement detroit free press gannett detroit news has told analysts earnings were down third quarter however analysts point positive advertising spending several major daily newspapers such miami herald san jose mercury news miami market is coming back strong tough couple years knight-ridder was starting hispanic edition circulation was falling said bruce thorp analyst provident national bank