important people plan gather here soon say nice things brian p. monieson occasion is n't tribute former chicago mercantile exchange chairman however hearing federal commodity regulators hope ban futures industry commodity futures trading commission alleges mr. monieson was warned brokers gnp commodities inc. were bilking investors failed stop promptly brokers question was mr. monieson best friends case has become most closely watched civil commodity enforcement action recent memory futures industry top officials rallying mr. monieson defense scheduled character witnesses nov. hearing include u.s. agriculture secretary clayton yeutter was merc president mr. monieson leo melamed chairman merc executive committee robert k. wilmouth president national futures association industry-funded regulatory group mr. monieson attorney matter is jerrold e. salzman merc influential outside counsel gnp brokers allegedly allocated trades meaning initiated futures trades required customer account numbers then kept profitable ones stuck customers losers mr. monieson childhood math whiz self-described computer nerd denies charges expects gnp be exonerated noting gnp processed some trades last year says heck know 's going trades loses hearing mr. monieson appeal full panel cftc commissioners then federal courts messrs. melamed salzman wilmouth came friend aid fact merc national futures association brought similar failure-to-supervise charges gnp not mr. monieson personally case shows fallacy self-regulation concept futures industry cherishes theory traders brokers police widespread fraud discredit industry frighten investors enlightened self-interest is supposed overcome built-in conflicts interest problem self-regulation is always regulators are tinged self-interest says david ruder just-departed chairman securities exchange commission case mr. ruder says seem 're acting capacities people stature testify disciplinary case counsel avoidance appearance conflict mr. ruder adds mr. yeutter seems odd people high government positions intervene testify mr. salzman says merc gave permission represent mr. monieson adding 's conflict has recused merc case 've had long personal relationship brian mr. salzman says n't say mr. melamed mr. wilmouth said see conflict organizations did n't charge mr. monieson personally 're only testifying character mr. yeutter n't be reached comment interview corner office merc tower mr. monieson contends is victim own celebrity cftc was looking something high-profile says investigation already has been costly mr. monieson january was weeks away sale firm as much deal hit snag federal reserve board had approve gnp sale banque indosuez french bank learned cftc investigation distressed mr. monieson called cftc asked top lawyers no fewer times divulge confidential details probe gnp refused even mr. monieson warned deal collapse become international incident u.s. france according memo lawyers wrote banque indosuez deal fell mr. monieson years old wears expensive clothes successful trader mannerisms are more preoccupied math professor office is filled toy pigs remind fortune made trading pork bellies desk hangs more recent sign success futures trader picasso leroy nieman painting depicting horse race mr. monieson defense cftc hearing partly be is busy man was n't personally involved gnp retail brokerage business years merc chairman mr. monieson played host prime ministers crown princes attorneys have prepared charts showing many merc meetings attended time spent away business lawyers probably n't mention interest horse racing mr. monieson says remains hobby mr. monieson born chicago north side age was faithful reader racing form regularly joining father track says later bet ponies high school friend myron rosenthal become partner gnp other ventures mr. rosenthal set become indecon inc. computer processing firm early offshoot was computerized tip sheet harness racing cranked using same type equipment used important space research big business mr. monieson told subscribers programming unexpectedly led trading early 1970s customer pork processor commissioned computer program supply demand bacon never used program mr. monieson mr. rosenthal got together started trading pork belly futures merc based program predictions formed gnp not desire run futures clearing firm mr. monieson says were tired paying brokerage commissions decade later gnp was trading all merc floor mostly financial futures pork bellies still held fascination mr. monieson trading pit earn dubious distinction only merc chairman be found guilty committing trading violations running exchange mr. monieson mr. rosenthal were fined respectively taking speculative positions exchange limits mr. rosenthal fine was bigger allegedly had exceeded position limits before mr. monieson likening fine parking ticket says did violate rules contends position limits are set too low today trading environment associates held pork belly positions nearly identical gnp owners appeared be acting direction according internal merc account case company controlled mr. monieson mr. rosenthal lent other traders more help finance trades associates was norman furlett gnp salesman mr. monieson closest friends mr. furlett job was call investors get trade futures gnp got commission ira p. greenspon was same line work october joined gnp gnp did n't know was mr. greenspon already was investigation cftc alleged trade allocating previous firm cftc later concluded mr. furlett had been allocating trades as well according separate merc charges men gnp have n't been made public first months accounts maintained including named horse trading had profits customer accounts merc reviewed had combined losses months robert l. sutermeister retired trucking company owner dayton ohio says lost nearly sent brokers larry margler mckinleyville ca. engineer says lost about turned mr. furlett june cftc alleges mr. monieson was warned least gnp employees mr. furlett mr. greenspon were defrauding customers banque indosuez deal collapsed january salesmen left gnp attorney james koch says deny wrongdoing men have agreed leave futures industry