leading drug companies reported robust third-quarter earnings bolstered strong sales newer big-selling prescriptions drugs provide hefty profit margins merck co. reported % increase earnings warner-lambert co. profit rose % eli lilly co. net income rose % results were line analysts expectations merck co merck rahway n.j. continued lead industry strong sales performance human animal health-products segment stronger u.s. dollar reduced third-quarter first-nine-month sales growth % % respectively international sales accounted % total company sales months compared % year earlier sales quarter rose mevacor merck new cholesterol-lowering drug had higher sales other prescription medicine has ever achieved u.s. year following introduction company said drug was introduced west germany year intense competition however led unit sales declines group merck established human animal-health products including aldomet indocin new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday merck shares closed cents warner-lambert co warner-lambert morris plains n.j. reported sales were record quarter eighth quarter row % more per-share earnings growth spurred growth world-wide sales company prescription drugs warner-lambert said be best year history per-share earnings expected increase more % sales quarter rose prescription-drug world-wide sales rose % quarter u.s. sales rose % segment growth was led sales cardiovascular drugs lopid lipid regulator dilzem calcium channel blocker world-wide sales warner-lambert non-prescription health-care products such halls cough tablets rolaids antacid lubriderm skin lotion increased % third quarter u.s. sales rose % confectionery products sales also had strong growth quarter world-wide sales trident gum certs breath mints clorets gum breath mints increased % warner-lambert shares closed share big board composite trading yesterday eli lilly co lilly attributed record third-quarter nine-month results world-wide gains pharmaceuticals medical instruments plant-science products poor exchange rates dollar slowed sales abroad earnings continued pace sales lower tax rate profit renegotiation debt instrument received faberge inc. connection lilly sale elizabeth arden inc. net proceeds settlement patent litigation lilly hybritech inc. unit third-quarter sales indianapolis ind. company rose % nine-month sales grew % year earlier sales prozac anti-depressant led drug-sales increases higher sales pesticides other plant-science products more offset slight decline sales animal-health products fuel increase world-wide agricultural product sales lilly said advanced cardiovascular systems inc. cardiac pacemakers inc. units led growth medical-instrument systems division lilly shares closed yesterday composite trading big board cents