anne volokh family immigrated u.s. years ago started life los angeles only actually left soviet union stop italy ms. volokh dropped black velvet suit not surprisingly quickly adapted american way months arrived l.a. spent did n't have hat turban specifies was n't time years ago loved turbans then has become wealthy husband older son computer prodigy profiled the wall street journal was run software company expected sales year most recently has become publisher movieline four-year-old los angeles magazine began national distribution last month initial press run copies distributed hearst corp. eastern news glossy publication melds vanity fair gossipy archness premiere earnest delving behind-the-scenes minutiae special emphasis tinseltown fashion trendsetter 's being sold bookstores newsstands video stores though ms. volokh is small woman has outsized personality dramatic flair seem perfectly suited capitalism is practiced hollywood certainly life has changed considerably days kiev lived parents husband sons apartment calls silent internal immigration dreaming escape now example owns hats however remembers lean years recalls relish wearing first major american purchase turban years later having los angeles boutique owner ask was chanel obvious satisfaction says told darling just give chanel look keeps track rest hats stapling polaroid snapshots outside hatbox are hats merely part new l.a. persona many ultra-thin capri cigarettes smokes parties throws people chekovian feasts offers guests weekend place santa barbara darling said recently fluent slightly affected english trip east promote movieline national expansion have be born used wear hats russia had make dresses hat side was n't getting wanted now years old ms. volokh has definite ideas wants movieline wants specific paragraphing specific tone specific attitude bright bold tongue-in-cheek restaurants case russian samovar new york restaurant operated soviet emigres did n't want chirpy folkish music bouncing room people here think is russian music said disdain called waitress turn done ms. volokh spoke rampant eloquence many attributes feels was born understanding food business russian culture human nature parties parties are rather state mind said pausing only taste pass judgment georgian shashlik little well done very good are born give parties give parties even russia managed give parties los angeles lean years gave parties publisher magazine devoted movies guideposts fashion other fantasies ms. volokh sees party-giving important part business has thrown extravagant soirees crowds people prefers more intimate gatherings american cocktail parties everyone 's always looking shoulder see talk next like rather tea is end day serves high russian tea p.m 's supposed be later just moved los angeles 's important catch people just work also frequently invites directors producers actors writers other show business people coffee clips pleasure dome guests bring movies tape show favorite three-to-five minute segments screen unrolls ceiling volokhs art-nouveau library the pleasure dome eat sinful sensual things explain clips 's very revealing soul baring said ms. volokh idea movieline actually was dreamed old friend volokhs boris krutchensky has title co-publisher laurie halpern smith now magazine co-editor mr. krutchensky approached ms. volokh years ago backing publication started listing guide was interested only guide editorially as well anne does n't believe blandness said ms. smith wants things be exciting has inexhaustible energy think idea editorial people think is impossible then have make work fact ms. volokh was n't just rich lady needed hobby back soviet union was respected journalist writing weekly column national cuisine sunday izvestia columns vivid discussions cultural literary reverberations food as well practical advice glamorize dreary sovietized meals became basis erudite entertaining cookbook art russian cuisine brought macmillan publishing co do n't trust people do n't eat said ms. volokh stopped eating lunch few years ago drop pounds look dostoevski kafka one ever eats books look tolstoy characters eat pushkin gogol cookbook macmillan is bringing soft cover month blini recipe revised works introduces chapter appropriate quotations russian literature pushkin blini goncharov piroghi life offers practical dieting advice divide meals important unimportant great restaurant do n't deprive other meals do n't matter amusing is frivolous seem is serious person difficult memories was child relative privilege mother was translator father was eternal vice director emigrated wear better hats do better parties said giggle n't leave political reasons number try maintain dignity difficult circumstances not imagine live live double triple lives second child was born had become clear ms. volokh husband vladimir computer scientist wanted leave u.s.s.r ms. volokh quit job remove public eye wait was miserable granting ms. volokh parents visa government required mother obtain permission first husband had divorced years earlier mr. volokh was fired job had endure hours organized verbal abuse co-workers accusations sabotage counterrevolutionary activities volokhs were afraid end friend 'd applied visa waited years having been demoted profession theoretical mathematician shipping clerk did n't visa came relatively short order moved los angeles mr. volokh soon found work field ms. volokh refused obvious available occupation translator russian spoke fluent english 's always looking back said wanted be business way goal received first u.s. paycheck proofreading book polish poetry attended secretarial school then went work fund-raising organization soon was running office husband son founded computer company vesoft worked business manager bookkeeper publicist now movieline is located same building vesoft things work unexpectedly life said ms. volokh never know be chosen be scapegoat lucky were lucky