maidenform inc. loves be intimate customers not rest public 67-year-old maker brassieres panties lingerie enjoys best-known brand images financial profile is closely guarded members founding family are very few companies boast close-knit group says robert a. brawer years old recently named president succeeding beatrice coleman mother-in-law remains chairman are vanishing breed muses mrs. coleman declined be interviewed is maidenform strategist sales have tripled 21-year tenure about maidenform says is very profitable declines provide specifics company sells image current ad campaign maidenform has spent more fall does n't even show underwear products rather men christopher reeve star superman movies talking lingerie turn-ons maidenform name is part american pop culture says joan sinopoli account supervisor campaign levine huntley schmidt beaver new york ad firm maidenform generated such memorable campaigns dreamed maidenform bra maidenform woman never know turn capitalizing brand is key says mr. brawer immediate plans include further international expansion getting better control distribution u.s intimate apparel industry is perceived be growth industry clearly maidenform is force be reckoned says david s. leibowitz special situations analyst american securities corp. new york working women are forced wear uniform day retain femininity are buying better quality more upscale intimate apparel said mr. brawer appointment president was long expected move sept. precipitated resignation alan lesk senior vice president sales merchandising days later mr. lesk was named president chief executive officer olga co. competing intimate apparel division warnaco inc warnaco also owns warners major intimate apparel maker mr. lesk n't be reached comment maidenform officials say spending years maidenform mr. lesk made clear wanted top job want presidency company is n't firm work says james mogan was named senior vice president sales assuming responsibilities mr. lesk company downplayed loss mr. lesk split merchandising responsibilities committee people style is less informal mr. brawer says top officers insist maidenform greatest strength is family ownership n't go anywhere company find organizational chart delights is fun competing private company mr. brawer says think long range other major players intimate apparel apparently feel same way warnaco was taken private spectrum group about last year playtex holdings inc. went private about was then split playtex apparel inc. intimate apparel division playtex family products corp. makes tampons hair-care items other products publicly traded vf corp. owns vanity fair sara lee corp. owns bali co. are also strong forces intimate apparel buy-out offers maidenform are n't infrequent says executive vice president david c. masket are n't taken very seriously gets calls do n't even have consult mrs. coleman mr. masket says company command good price market past half years apparel companies have strong brand names have been bought about % sales says deborah bronston prudential-bache securities inc. apparel analyst mr. brawer along mrs. coleman daughter elizabeth attorney is vice chairman are family members involved operations maidenform employs about mr. brawer wife catherine robert stroup elizabeth husband round five-member board has equal vote monthly meetings are all very amiable mr. brawer says executives say mrs. coleman is very involved day-to-day operations especially product development late 1960s designed lightweight stretch bra boosted sales father william rosenthal designed then-dress making company first bra 1920s said gave women maiden form compared boyish form got flat bandages used support time mr. rosenthal introduced new undergarment designs wife ida concentrated sales other financial matters name maidenform was coined third business partner enid bissett company has plants distribution facilities u.s. puerto rico other parts caribbean ireland maidenform products are mainly sold department stores company has quietly opened retail store own omaha neb. has factory outlets plans add more joining maidenform mr. brawer holds doctoral degree english university chicago taught university wisconsin senior vice president has headed company designer lingerie division oscar renta inception maintain exclusivity designer line is n't labeled maidenform name company has always been family-run mr. brawer is n't first person marry family subsequently head maidenform mrs. coleman husband joseph physician succeeded mrs. rosenthal president served post death