johnson johnson reported % rise third-quarter net income % sales increase results were driven particularly new products including pharmaceuticals company professional operations net new brunswick n.j. maker health-care products climbed cents share cents share year-earlier period sales rose year-ago per-share earnings are adjusted reflect 2-for-1 stock split last may statement ralph s. larsen chairman chief executive officer said company was pleased third-quarter sales performance especially light extremely competitive environment domestic consumer markets negative impact unfavorable exchange rates quarter david j. lothson industry analyst painewebber group inc. said johnson johnson results slightly exceeded expectations third quarter new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday johnson johnson shares fell cents mr. larsen noted substantial sales growth recently introduced acuvue disposable contact lens hismanal once-a-day antihistamine eprex used dialysis patients are anemic prepulsid gastro-intestinal drug did well overseas said health-care cost controls programs hold inventory professional division makes products including sutures surgical stapling equipment achieved solid growth johnson johnson said domestic consumer sales slipped % quarter company cited softness retail health beauty aids category as well intense competition company sanitary protection product line overseas sales were stronger principally rebound brazil economic turmoil had hurt year-earlier results johnson johnson said mr. lothson painewebber said company sales pace has been picking largely effect unfavorable exchange rates has been easing pattern continuing quarter cautioned however tough tax-rate comparison slow company earnings growth current quarter last year fourth quarter company tax rate was less % said third period contained major surprises mr. lothson said results show sensitive multinationals be developments single country such brazil also questioned recent gains country be sustained following issues were recently filed securities exchange commission bergen brunswig corp. proposed offering liquid yield option notes merrill lynch capital markets columbia gas system inc. shelf offering debentures laserscope initial offering common shares shares are be sold company holders alex brown sons inc. volpe covington welty televideo systems inc. proposed offering common shares be sold holders western gas system inc. initial offering common shares shares be sold company holder prudential-bache capital funding smith barney harris upham co. hanifen imhoff inc