soichiro honda picture now hangs henry ford 's u.s. automotive hall fame game-show jeopardy is soon be sony-owned matter much japan gets skin still have mom apple pie second thought make just mom japanese apple called fuji is cropping orchards way hondas did u.s. roads be planted more often other apple tree according recent survey apple-industry sages washington state university horticulturist robert norton fruit visionaries say fuji someday tumble red delicious top america apple heap certainly n't get there looks compared red delicious exemplar apple pulchritude fuji is decidedly more dowdy generally smaller less-perfectly shaped greenish tinges red hear most u.s. growers tell still be paradise serpent had proffered eve sweet is has more sugar apple 've ever tested says duane greene university massachusetts pomologist apple scholar has long shelf life does n't fool public says grady auvil orondo wash. grower is planting fujis spreading good word does n't look nice outside getting mealy inside mr. auvil razor sharp has picked packed zillion pecks apples past years is known father u.s.-grown granny smith radically different apple conventional wisdom once said never catch did shaking apple establishment roots now even more radical changes seem afoot grand old maverick american apples plays role hiroshi appleseed fuji is going be no. replace red delicious says delicious hegemony n't end anytime soon new apple trees grow slowly red delicious is almost as entrenched mom roots are patriotic first trees appearing orchard peru iowa be exact more years has been apple eye good delicious indeed be delicious more twice many red delicious apples are grown golden variety america no. apple apple industry is ripe change red delicious has been overplanted prices have dropped cost production says washington state mr. norton scare alar growth regulator makes apples redder crunchier be carcinogenic made consumers shy delicious were less affected mcintosh glut consequent lower prices combined cancer fears was very serious blow growers lot growers n't be around few years says mr. norton have stopped using alar be william broderick sterling mass. grower is beautiful stuff says looking ruefully big boxes just-picked red delicious next barn 'm going lose 'm going have get job year just eat rotten prices has been hit recently hail bark-nibbling horde mice fungi bugs insects diseases wiggle chew romp growers nightmares including maggots mites mildew thrips black rot flat-headed borer even grower beats rented bees buzz neighbors orchards instead pollinating mr. broderick says growers n't always keep worm apple protect price vagaries variety diversifying recently imported gala sweet new zealand native esopus spitzenburg reportedly thomas jefferson favorite apple disease-resistant kinds liberty 've ripped lot delicious grafted trees many different shoots says steve wood west lebanon n.h. grower tramping 100-acre poverty lane orchard crisp autumn day recently 've got kinds apples here 's waltana exclaims picking tree bites scowls throws 's real dog supermarkets are getting variety act too still buy apples mainly big red good looks 's so many taste woodchucks punching bags freshness counts more once did stores are expanding shelf space unconventional tastier often pricier apples rather sell 39-cents-a-pound delicious maybe sell 79-cents-a-pound fujis says chuck tryon perishables director super valu inc. minneapolis supermarket chain food distributor fuji is product meticulous japanese pomological engineering fostered years ago government research orchard japanese researchers have bred dozens strains fujis hone color taste shelf life now best age as gracefully grannies industry gold standard storability cornucopia go-go apples fuji track record stands past years has gone almost zilch some % japan market japanese apple market is very keyed high quality says david lane scientist canadian horticulture research center summerland british columbia so apples are more delicacy there big food commodity u.s. department agriculture estimates year americans eat about % more fresh apples capita japanese fuji is still small potatoes u.s. sold mainly fruit boutiques california says craig ito fuji-apple grower 's fuji apple cult somebody eats get hooked mr. auvil washington grower says sell fujis taiwan buyers box had taiwan already is big importer fujis other places adds first crop n't be picked next year expect see demand exceed supply fujis next years adds washington red delicious way are wholesaling less box days mr. auvil sees fujis part striking blow perversion u.s. apples supermarkets chain stores took was no longer connection grower consumer guy is sitting office deciding 're going eat even red delicious was firm delectable morsel then growers bred more looks satisfy supermarket chains demands long-term storage red went decline now red applelike things stores sell summer are fruitbowl lovely usually not good eating do deserve respect however are almost year old probably equal about human years fuji be sure has blemishes too ripens later most apples growing u.s. areas chilly autumns be tricky moreover frumpy fuji compete increasingly dolledup delicious mr. broderick massachusetts grower says big boss supermarket chain even rejected red delicious recently were n't waxed brushed extra shine had n't used hormones many growers employ elongate delicious apples greater eye appeal still mr. auvil points grannies became popular big red looks so not fujis sees shift american values least regarding apples more emphasis substance less glitz taste has finally come fore says matter core