turmoil wall street benefit retailers attempting lead leveraged buy-outs specialty department-store chains investment bankers retailers said managers chains have said recent weeks intend bid companies chains include bloomingdale owned campeau corp. toronto saks fifth avenue marshall field owned b.a.t industries plc london b. altman co. sakowitz inc. owned hooker corp. is now being managed court-appointed provisional liquidator hooker is based sydney australia combination so many chains available sale recent failures such retailing lbo as miller rhoads inc. declining investor confidence drive prices retailing observers said pricing become more realistic help management said bruce rosenthal new york investment banker nathan s. jonas co investors are n't going be throwing money proposed lbos doing deals basis ridiculous assumptions never made sense either earlier year bankers other investors were willing provide financing assumed be major gains profitability sales mr. rosenthal added days are over now believes competition third parties have cash are prepared buy has always existed continue added mr. rosenthal prices were crazy was even harder do lbo bankers believed greater-fool theory says somebody else is always willing pay more is longer true today saks fifth avenue paul leblang senior vice president marketing agreed lower prices help management team proposed lbo having take less debt certainly be advantage said mr. leblang also help search equity partners make lbo work now are going need more just junk bonds none believe proposed management lbos be easy complete especially b. altman co. is chapter bankruptcy protection not only wall street gyrations damp christmas sales consumers lose confidence economy potential junk-bond buyers are sure demand even stronger covenants greater management equity participation further many institutions today holding troubled retailers debt securities be reticent consider additional retailing investments 's called bad money driving good money said retailing observer institutions usually buy retail paper have be more concerned however lower prices retail chains are now expected bring make easier managers raise necessary capital pay back resulting debt addition fall selling season has generally been good one especially retailers dependent apparel sales majority revenues 's encouraging is retail chains be sold basis sales earnings not liquidation values said joseph e. brooks chairman chief executive officer ann taylor inc. specialty chain retailers had good track records producing profits have better chance buy back companies still most retailing observers expect proposed retailing lbos depend partly sale junk bonds market already tumult part concerns associated bonds issued federated allied units campeau prices retail chains are lower today were last week help management said gilbert harrison chairman financo inc. investment-banking firm specializing retailing acquisitions hurdle financing still has be resolved potential bondholders either look greater equity participation behalf management insist equity component deals be substantially greater past