president bush arrives here next week hemispheric summit organized commemorate century costa rican democracy be able deliver credible message wake panamanian fiasco undoubtedly mr. bush be praised latin leaders prone pay lip service nonintervention privately encourage more assertive u.s. action remove gen. manuel noriega safeguard countries sandinista onslaught panamanian affair is only tip more alarming iceberg originates bush administration decision not antagonize u.s. congress avoid costs being accused meddling region result has been dangerous vacuum u.s. leadership leaves central america open soviet adventurism influence u.s. is not being felt central america washington decisions do not respond policy are divorced reality says fernando volio costa rican congressman former foreign minister disarray bush administration latin diplomacy was evident failure organization american states condemn categorically gen. noriega faced embarrassment u.s. diplomats expressed confidence influential rio group south american nations gathered last week peru take stronger posture panamanian dictator other few slaps wrist gen. noriega went unpunished body too was not even singled closing statement now mr. bush come costa rica encounter nicaraguan strongman daniel ortega eager photo opportunities u.s. president host costa rican president oscar arias did not invite chile cuba panama haiti summit was be restricted democracies however mr. ortega was included formally upgrading sandinistas democratic status was initiative harshly criticized costa rican press even carlos manuel castillo presidential candidate mr. arias national liberation party made public opposition presence nicaragua democratic festivity nevertheless bush administration agreed dubious arrangement july few weeks central american presidents met tela honduras discuss timetable disbanding anti-sandinista rebels according officials washington state department hoped pleasing president arias gain support postpone decision contras mr. ortega promises democratic elections were tested february however relying ardent critic reagan administration contra movement help delaying disarming contras was risky business even last-minute phone calls mr. bush made behest conservative u.s. senators enlist backing u.s. position failed stop march mr. arias agenda prior episode sen. christopher dodd d. conn. sensing open field undertook personal diplomatic mission central america promote early disbanding rebels visiting nicaragua praised sandinistas electoral system chided bush administration not rewarding sandinistas honduras contras are hot political issue promised help unblock assistance withheld due failure local agencies comply conditions agreed washington aid was also gist talks sen. dodd had salvadoran president alfredo cristiani mr. cristiani government is very much mercy u.s. largess is forced listen very carefully sen. dodd likes dislikes was therefore not surprising close allies u.s. virtually neglected bush administration ordered nicaraguan insurgents dismantled december long elections fittingly tela accords were nicknamed hondurans dodd plan individual foreign policy carried u.s. legislators adds confusing u.s. performance has emboldened soviet initiatives central america oct. following conversations secretary state james baker soviet foreign minister eduard shevardnadze arrived managua acclaim nicaragua great peace efforts there mr. shevardnadze felt legitimized unveil own peace plan u.s.s.r. prolong suspension arms shipments nicaragua february election u.s. did likewise allies central america also called nicaragua neighbors accept military equilibrium guaranteed superpowers pentagon claims spite moscow words east bloc weapons continue flow nicaragua cuba near-record levels mr. shevardnadze proposals followed discussions mr. baker speculations arose bush administration was seeking accommodation soviets central america scheme fit arias plan declared false symmetry soviet military aid sandinista dictatorship provided washington freely elected governments furthermore is also likely encourage capitol hill asking cuts assistance el salvador president cristiani does not bend demands marxist guerrillas sad condition u.s. policy central america is best depicted recent end u.s. sponsorship radio costa rica costa rican government requested help establish radio station northern part country flooded airwaves sandinista propaganda recovering radiophonic sovereignty was purpose radio costa rica funded u.s. affiliated voice america voa few months ago bush administration decided stop cooperation leaving radio costa rica operating shoestring according news reports abrupt termination was due fears voa transmissions interfere peace process meantime russia gave nicaragua powerful radio transmitter has been installed city esteli is capable reaching entire caribbean area deep north america perhaps loud signal generate awareness soviet condominium being created isthmus thanks u.s. default soviet entrenchment nicaragua is alarming costa rica peaceful democracy army questioned washington happen much-heralded peace plan fail president arias voiced expectations direct u.s. action poll conducted july gallup affiliate showed % costa ricans believe country is militarily attacked nicaragua panama u.s. come defense light events panama u.s. has such clear strategic interests waiting delta force prove be dangerous gambit mr. daremblum is lawyer columnist la nacion newspaper