albert engelken robert thomson had never met years lives had been intertwined way peculiar sports world mr. engelken now transit-association executive washington d.c. mr. thomson paper-products salesman montvale n.j. had n't even talked other recent day became much closer mr. engelken rabid baseball fan pores sports pages chart exploits favorite not-so-favorite teams players often groans says clutter sports stories drugs alcohol gambling player lament miserly millions is offered play game morning paper washington post even carries sports column called jurisprudence recounts latest arrests convictions players team managers many sports buffs mr. engelken has turned cynic is story hero era sports anti-heroes babe ruth mr. engelken reminds once called only real game world mr. engelken is also story love 'm blessed have wife still thinks slightly eccentric husband 50th birthday deserves ultimate present understand mr. engelken means go back sunny october afternoon new york polo grounds stadium be argued most dramatic moment baseball history was played out was ninth inning third game three-game playoff brooklyn dodgers new york giants predecessor san francisco giants scheduled play tonight world series baseball fans new york had sweated long summer teams now had come battle national league pennant last inning last game no less fans jammed stands shouted top lungs mr. engelken was doing same hudson river new jersey nose pressed front window passaic-clifton national bank watched duel television set bank set up event playoff series had riveted 12-year-old giants fan giants struck first winning opener two-run homer dodger right-hander ralph branca mr. engelken recalls precision today giants got swamped second game trailed going bottom ninth third deciding game giants scored once had runners second whitey lockman third clint hartung bobby thomson advanced plate rest say is history mr. thomson tall scottish-born right-hand hitter stepped batter box thomson took called strike mr. engelken recounts tension mounted ralph branca again mound stared batter wound up let loose fastball pitch sailed bobby thomson high inside then crack bat was sent rocketing back lower leftfield stands giants fans went euphoria says mr. engelken bobby thomson was made legend same bobby thomson turns out sells paper-goods today n't be older baseball fan alive does n't clearly remember bobby thomson homer n't tell was heard famous russ hodges radio broadcast one concluded mr. hodges shouting over over giants win pennant giants win pennant mr. engelken mr. thomson drifted different directions subsequent years polo grounds located coogan bluff upper manhattan was replaced public-housing project mr. thomson played outfield third base posting lifetime batting average chalking home runs retiring going paper-goods sales mr. engelken moved south washington took enduring memories homer wife betsy came aisle wedding day mr. engelken slouch romantic front gave ultimate compliment look prettier bobby thomson home run couple first dog homer was named great event unwitting friends assumed was namesake poet mr. engelken sister martha was born days home run reached 25th birthday mr. engelken wrote sports hero tell coincidence events mr. thomson sent card martha does n't seem years hit home run celebrate birth read martha was pleased nowhere near as much mr. engelken family license plate reads eng first letters family name surprise here bobby thomson uniform number mr. engelken 40th birthday wife bought book detailing big homer sent mr. thomson be autographed have been better asks mr. engelken betsy engelken asked same question earlier year husband was turn had idea husband 50th birthday auspicious years marriage be noted betsy al college-bound son set out new york visit fordham university mrs. engelken had scheduled stop new jersey turnpike told husband pick papers neighbor papers be handed bank telephone booths just exit sounded something ian fleming mr. engelken recalls appointed exit family pulled over mrs. engelken went get papers mr. engelken turned motor rolled window matter minutes was back tall silver-haired man in tow crouched down car window addressed husband favorite nickname bertie said happy 50th birthday is bobby thomson was recalls mr. engelken hero youth person history most like meet keep thomas jeffersons st. augustines michelangelos take baseball flying scot hesitation talked home run thought was upper deck said bobby thomson now years old talked aftermath never thought become so momentous bobby remarked mr. engelken says wife was overwhelmed whole thing was worth just look albert face men spent hour exit rehashing event fulfilling lifelong dream young boy now turned mr. engelken says hero signed photographs homer diplomatically called ralph branca very fine pitcher mr. engelken asked took time work somebody did n't even know bobby thomson replied know albert have chance life make somebody happy have obligation do interview mr. thomson is married has grown children says has few ties baseball days other playing old-timers games now again fans constant amazement never let forget famous four-bagger mail regularly recalls event has been growing recent years response letters mr. thomson usually sends autographed photo polite note rarely arranges rendezvous betsy engelken wrote saying stop new jersey home seemed different good feeling be do says thought engelken family got back trip up north mr. engelken wrote just make sure detail was missed way home notes recall took concentrated effort keep car pointed south mind was miles north place called coogan bluff real sports hero had captured imagination kid never fully grew up is richer take heart sports fans wrote real heroes exist not find one jurisprudence column knows meet up bank telephone booths just exit new jersey turnpike