steve clark shearson lehman hutton inc. trader reported work a.m. half hours usual monday morning strategy meeting jefferies co. j. francis palamara did n't reach office a.m. then had been up most night home had calls night long states said was woken hour people are looking possible opportunities buy nobody wants stick chin many london securities traders was day started nervously small hours lunchtime selling was near-panic fever day ended frantic wall street-inspired rally city breathed sigh relief went yesterday trading rooms london financial district wake wall street plunge last friday london market was considered especially vulnerable opening trading here yesterday eyes were early trading tokyo clue widespread fallout be time trading officially got way a.m. news asia was in left mixed signals london tokyo stocks closed off significant less-than-alarming % thin volume hong kong stocks declined % orderly trading jefferies trading room finsbury circus stately circle edge financial district desktop computer screens displayed london market major barometer financial times-stock exchange share index red figures screens indicated falling stocks blue figures rising stocks right away reds outnumbered blues index opened points % see concern do n't see panic said mr. palamara big good-humored new york native runs 15-trader office jefferies office branch los angeles-based firm played conservatively seeking avoid risk is not sort market have big position said david smith heads trading non-u.s. stocks tend run very tight book jefferies spent most energies morning trying match buyers sellers were n't many buyers takeover stocks scottish newcastle b.a.t drg are getting pretty well pasted morning mr. smith said seconds later 7,500-share sell order scottish newcastle came third time minutes trader next mr. smith left no-smoking area have cigarette screens only forlorn blue figures remained index had recovered few points was off about tokyo did n't collapse let pick little stock mr. smith said targeted shares reuters punched button call screen other dealers price quotes vivid yellow figures showed best price pence mr. smith traders started putting feelers market sensed serious buyer day dominated selling quotes immediately jumped pence want buy run keep changing prices mr. smith said 's very frustrating temporarily abandoned search reuters shares time was a.m. new york mr. smith fielded call new york customer wanting opinion british stock market had been having troubles own even friday new york market break fundamentally dangerous mr. smith said almost whisper fundamentally weak fairly vulnerable still extremely dangerously poised 're lot turbulence was right midday london market was full retreat 's falling stone said danny linger pit trader was standing london international financial futures exchange only half usual lunchtime crowd gathered tony corney barrow wine bar old broad street nearby conversation was subdued most patrons watched latest market statistics television p.m. index hit low points france opened limit down least % calculate index n't mr. clark shearson trader said early afternoon spain is down % suspended sweden 's down % norway % market has been very badly damaged p.m. wall street opening time neared shearson traders salesmen traded bets low new york market open center trading floor chief trader roger streeter colleagues scrambled telephones as soon new york market opened plummeting more points first few minutes saw opportunity created sell-off wall street traders dumped american depositary receipts jaguar plc mr. streeter trader sam ruiz bought resell u.k investors here still expect ford motor co. general motors corp. bid jaguar suddenly about minutes u.s. markets rallied mmi has gone better shouted trader about london time u.s. major markets index contract suddenly indicated turnabout wall street strengthened london trading room went wild traders shouted screens posted ever-narrowing loss wall street then minutes later wall street suddenly rebounded gain day rally rally rally shouted shearson trader andy rosen selling more jaguar shares is panic buying london market rallied wondered weekend worrying jitters had been worth london index closed high day about %