business says groupe bull chairman francis lorentz sometimes add rarely mr. lorentz is talking mergers not mathematics bull french-government-owned computer maker earlier month agreed buy computer business zenith electronics corp. as much denies is merger bull says intends retain existing management u.s. unit keep zenith label selling zenith personal computers product line bull had been lagging part bull data-processing systems merger not zenith acquisition is key part mr. lorentz plan grow bull world 11th biggest computer company last year profitable member top computer makers n't be easy bull had first-half net loss francs revenue francs mr. lorentz says objective remains posting small profit year is n't certain company make black adds full-year loss n't be anywhere as big first-half loss was caused part production problems are being solved company angers france circuit-board plant squeeze profit margins growing competition event bull thus far has n't had trouble finding cash fund acquisitions bull posted profit francs revenue francs other key bull future health is other u.s. leg bull last year increased % controlling interest honeywell bull inc honeywell inc. retains % nec corp. japan owns remaining % addition bull renamed u.s. company bull hn information services inc bull hn reports mr. lorentz chairman holding company cie. des machines bull past decade so bull honeywell tried various approaches combining businesses none really jelled were spending energies internally externally world was changing breakneck speed mr. lorentz says now bull firm control u.s. operations are key ingredients mr. lorentz plans ensure bull remains half-dozen so world-wide full-range computer companies likely survive do so bull is planting firmly u.s. says mr. lorentz lot best people research are zenith buy means bull derive % revenue u.s. % previously company spends % billion-franc research development budget u.s keeping zenith relatively independant says mr. lorentz makes sense are completely different cultures making personal computers zenith making mainframes bull says disarmingly are n't fast enough mainframe makers live cycles years development product life pc makers get months development maybe months shelf life afford take risks fail is absolutely essential keep zenith originality extraordinary force 47-year-old mr. lorentz adds vocation is be able respond question clients ask says mr. lorentz joined bull years stints chief financial officer water company various posts french treasury want be able offer complete systems specialized areas banking ranging automated-teller machines front-desk workstation back-office equipment mainframe computer do need make basic building blocks mr. lorentz succeeded jacques stern chairman bull june predecessor is crusader open software is standards work machines various makers order give smaller companies bull chance industry giants mr. lorentz mr. stern no. inherits task making bull biggest healthiest european soup-to-nuts computer company competing globally likes international business machines corp. unisys corp. handful japanese companies counting only sales computer equipment bull is already biggest europe ahead siemens ag west germany ing c. olivetti co. italy mr. lorentz says mr. lorentz intense cerebral product france elite ecole national d'administration likes go rock climbing spare time used practice martial art discuss frankly bull past problems asked company has suffered unfocussed image readily agrees allows products computer makers are getting more more alike certain banalization calls specialized service make difference future manage problem service make difference now says having added zenith pcs bull stable mr. lorentz says company be better armed battle especially europe biggest asset is are well implanted europe europe be fastest growing market world next years conquest europe happen part u.s information industry is global says mr. lorenz image industry is created u.s. be present u.s. order be known everywhere else u.s. represents % world information market 's % world technology human resources are there scarcest resource is people people are u.s. so are 's whole story