white house budget director prodding congress finish work quickly budget bills is trying put sting little-feared spending cuts were triggered yesterday gramm-rudman deficit-reduction law impose little bit more discipline budget process budget director richard darman said n't give agencies much flexibility shift funds different programs means coping law requirements government budget experts suggested mr. darman maneuver does n't amount much more tough talk nevertheless add pressure house follow senate lead strip pending budget legislation scores costly extraneous provisions house speaker thomas foley met committee chairmen yesterday try move direction are going try make agreement senate president sign washington state democrat told reporters talks are continue today house republicans also are reluctant pare 1,878-page measure least are guaranteed provisions care get vote lot guys do n't want just die said house gop leader robert michel r. ill house did n't move quickly enough meet gramm-rudman deadline passing legislation bring projected fiscal deficit target law requires president bush yesterday signed order cutting federal spending board removed budget legislation extraneous provisions house bill including ones cut capital-gains taxes provide new aid child care repeal catastrophic-illness insurance program be reintroduced separate bills 're trying explore now is protect other issues said house budget committee chairman leon panetta d. calif 're not going suddenly abandon reps. foley michel had agreed streamline deficit-reduction bill house even took mr. darman white house chief staff john sununu had torpedoed plan order press fight cut capital-gains taxes congressional leaders rejected suggestions attempts speed deficit-reduction bill had anything do friday stock market decline are responding responsibility budget act rep. foley said even size yesterday rebound stock prices was known mr. darman said friday plunge have significant effect budget process fiscal year began oct. office management budget began withholding % pentagon money % other agencies money gramm-rudman law requires cuts known sequester budget jargon became permanent yesterday congress cancel rescind wants special provision law government yesterday began slicing % medicare payments made doctors hospitals nearly two-thirds federal spending including social security payments salaries current federal employees is exempt gramm-rudman cuts rest government be pinched perhaps month cut funds are n't restored taking tough bargaining position mr. darman said opposes restoring funds congress finally wraps work spending gramm-rudman penalty n't be taken seriously agencies merely figure out juggle accounts trusting congress is going restore money little bit later said congressional democrats were quick disagree senate budget chairman james sasser d. tenn insisted do n't do american people any good whatsoever standing by letting automatic cuts go effect quicken pain spending cuts are intended inflict mr. darman said omb is making cuts individual program project activity budget yesterday omb had indicated cut account level account is comprised many programs projects activities mr. darman said new approach give agencies less ability shift area another fudge things least major spending programs government budget experts said omb has n't significant control individual programs projects activities first suffer spending cuts be programs spend most money personnel mr. darman said n't predict long be first layoffs occur law president bush exempt military personnel accounts spending cuts has n't yet done so mr. darman also said yesterday administration is n't any longer pushing include cut capital-gains taxes part budget legislation odds are 8-to-5 favor winning approval capital gains taxes year