program traders are fond predicting are blocked u.s. simply emigrate foreign stock markets london tokyo computer-driven trading now plays small growing role traders say number hurdles loom government officials especially japan probably resist onslaught program trading players trying shrug u.s. furor activities marching abroad business japan is very concerned possible effects program trading senior japanese official said oct. stock plunge new york u.s. stock-index futures are n't even traded japan now time difference japanese u.s. markets trading hours do n't overlap adds barrier american-style index arbitrage most popular form u.s. program trading seeks exploit brief differences prices stocks new york price futures contract chicago based stocks % program trading new york stock exchange firms september took place foreign markets according big board data is difficult imagine japan racing introduce chicago-style stock-index futures japan finance ministry already is scrutinizing institutional investors activity see policy changes are needed cope current level program trading said makato utsumi vice minister international finance program trading has taken japan last year introduction home-market stock-index futures trading tokyo osaka stock exchanges regulators are wary have n't forgotten leap share prices last dec. first bout foreign-led index arbitrage drove stocks skyward last half-hour trading startling regulators thought had written enough rules prevent swing japan finance ministry had set mechanisms limit far futures prices fall single session give market operators authority suspend trading futures time maybe was n't enough finance ministry official noted dec. surge japan regulators have tightened controls index-related stock purchases tokyo leading program traders are big u.s. securities houses japanese are playing catch-up u.s. firms notably salomon inc. morgan stanley group inc. have reaped hefty chunk japanese earnings index arbitrage customers own accounts morgan stanley last week joined growing list u.s. securities firms have stopped doing index arbitrage own accounts deryck c. maughan heads salomon tokyo john s. wadsworth heads morgan stanley there ascribe good part firms success tokyo ability offer sophisticated futures-related investment strategies big institutional clients do n't have plans cut back has not been disruptive markets here mr. maughan said real difference seems be cash market here is big enough liquid enough futures market is n't having same impact does america british also are scrutinizing program trades index-arbitrage trading is something want watch closely official london stock exchange said do n't think is cause concern moment london serves increasingly conduit program trading u.s. stocks market professionals said london has several attractions first trading is done counter is n't reported u.s. london stock trading tapes second be used unwind positions u.s. trading begins prices pegged previous session big board close addition extra privacy trades transactions often be less expensive execute parties do n't have pay floor brokerage fee specialist fee still much less index-arbitrage activity is done here u.s. said richard barfield chief investment manager standard life assurance co. manages united kingdom institutional funds britain has main index-arbitrage instruments financial times-stock exchange 100-share index option contract is traded london stock exchange traded options market ft-se futures contract is traded london international financial futures exchange contracts have gained following global market crash average number ft-se option contracts traded london exchange has surged nearly tenfold contract launch year average daily contracts traded totaled year earlier survey early summer indicated volume index-options trading was only % size underlying equity market exchange officials said compares estimates u.s. derivatives market is perhaps times as large underlying domestic market