airline deals tailspin legendary wall street trader michael steinhardt have trouble parachuting usair group traders say only week ago airline buy-out fever was already winding down mr. steinhardt was engaged duel usair was threatening take carrier spending estimated build % usair stake investment clients would-be raider even hired investment banker give teeth takeover threat was widely interpreted effort flush acquirer usair own stake fighting usair mr. steinhardt was pitted investor billionnaire warren buffett bought usair help fend mr. steinhardt mr. buffett firm berkshire hathaway holds much bigger stake carrier mr. steinhardt firm steinhardt partners now wake ual troubles financing buy-out airline raiding game has been grounded instead hoping sell usair stake analysts estimated buy-out price share mr. steinhardt is stuck roughly usair shares cost average yesterday closed new york stock exchange composite trading does n't make sense parachute out price mr. steinhardt says has stopped takeover talk now commends usair managers operating skills current price usair holding represents % assets mr. steinhardt manages week ago usair stock briefly soared report usa today mr. steinhardt launch hostile bid carrier takeover speculators say were skeptical usair is worth takeover stock went market was saying steinhardt presence was n't worth anything terms getting deal done says veteran takeover speculator traders say goes show even smartest money manager get infected crowd passions trying raid usair mr. steinhardt abandoned usual role passive investor ran snags moreover mr. buffett often holds big stakes companies years mr. steinhardt has n't past done much long-term investing mr. steinhardt runs steinhardt partners made name gunslinging trader moving stocks agility enriching investment clients meanwhile big losses instance crash generally have been trading losses see special irony fact mr. steinhardt trader now is encumbered massive illiquid airline holding analysts say usair stock lose points steinhardt stake was dumped once result mr. steinhardt reconcile selling usair loss holding shares old-fashioned investment long-term investing 's not steinhardt style chuckles investor once worked steinhardt partners does n't usually risk much thinks has ace hole adds steinhardt partners alumnus recent days traders say usair has been buying own shares part program retire usair shares carrier n't discuss buy-back program usair stepped share purchases be way mr. steinhardt get out says timothy pettee merrill lynch analyst usair not want help mr. steinhardt adds usair chairman edwin colodny stonewalled trans world airlines chairman carl icahn threatened take carrier mr. icahn much more practiced raider mr. steinhardt eventually sold big usair stake tiny profit bear stearns mr. steinhardt also take route confers big trading commissions wall street firms however airline stocks cratering not get very good price shares traders say especially galling mr. steinhardt say people close is usair mr. colodny n't even take telephone calls usair is n't considered absolutely takeover-proof defenses including sale august % stake company mr. buffett berkshire hathaway are pretty strong usair deal mr. buffett was n't exactly shining example shareholder democracy mr. steinhardt says last april investor has made so-called filings usair bought sold company stock such disclosures big holdings often are used raiders try scare company managers stir interest stock course be highly unusual investment fund such steinhardt partners take company usair mr. buffett n't talk mr. steinhardt analysts say usair has great promise second half usair stock hit says helane becker shearson lehman hutton thinks traders buy stock tumbles meanwhile usair is expected show losses lackluster profit several quarters tries digest piedmont airlines acquired moreover investors think recession renewed airfare wars pummel airline stocks coming months however mr. steinhardt says 's comfortable holding usair investment has bought sold usair shares recent days says contrary rumors has n't tried unload holding mr. steinhardt adds bought usair stock earlier year part fundamental investment airline group mr. steinhardt says made money trading texas air amr ual overall investments so far year are showing gains % adds does mr. steinhardt regret incursion takeover-threat game people close investor say was experiment is unlikely repeat do n't think find 'm making radical change traditional investment style mr. steinhardt says