gifts are better left unopened howard conant director valspar corp. donated goodwill industries inc. chicago eight-acre site city west side valspar had operated paint factory goodwill planned sell property pocket proceeds had many similar cases months later goodwill says was stunned learn illinois environmental protection agency mr. conant gift was contaminated charity current owner be held responsible cleanup costs only june state agency made more complete survey site did goodwill realize extent problem property contains more storage tanks holding hazardous oily solvents lead soil is contaminated similar substances 's toxic time bomb says james d. wadsworth president chicago goodwill is independent sister goodwills country cleaning site is expected cost many millions dollars paying even portion cleanup costs bankrupt charity has annual revenue says russell b. selman goodwill lawyer pending lawsuit charity has asked federal district court chicago rescind donation agreement valspar mr. conant goodwill problem looms potential threat charity accepts property gifts new age tough environmental laws federal illinois law present past owners contaminated site are be held liable cleanup costs regardless caused problem regulators generally assign costs donating contaminated property allows companies share costs environmental problems says laurence molloy molloy corp. environmental management firm new york also allows businesses stop paying taxes insurance land no longer use take tax deduction property tax lawyers say nonprofit organizations escape liability showing did n't know site was contaminated succeed also show conducted investigation accepting donation did n't disclose toxic-waste problem investigation cost as much charities face dilemma n't reject gifts property significantly reducing revenue non-cash donations include real estate have accounted % corporate giving according conference board new york trade group tracks corporate giving such donations represented only % corporate giving still hazards many nonprofit organizations are tightening rules such gifts june salvation army eastern division has refused real-estate donations donor first conducts environmental assessment property tend be very careful says carl schoch property secretary eastern division 're aware owner want get rid hazardous site nature conservancy site inspections have been mandatory late '70s are now specifically geared looking hazardous-waste problems says michael dennis general counsel rosalind va. group so far organization has n't incurred major liabilities last year went back donor years accepting gift conservancy learned waste site donor agreed share cleanup costs now group is considering hiring environmental specialists engineers work investigate properties need is hazardous property have multimillion-dollar liability hands mr. dennis says universities also are proceeding caution university minnesota spent cleaning toxic waste property donated local power utility site had been contaminated company leased property is now bankrupt now property transfers involving university are scrutinized potential hazards base cost about preliminary research soil samples scuttled environmental problems n't be resolved many nonprofit groups spurn donations fear potential problems council environment new york city governmental agency refused gift site be used children playground council learned auto repair shop had been located there little money was available tests site common sense said be problems says lys mclaughlin agency executive director receiving valspar gift chicago goodwill has virtually closed door property donations says president mr. wadsworth 's help current toxic-waste mess suit goodwill claims valspar paint varnish maker based minneapolis mr. conant have n't met terms donation agreement environmental regulations property transfers mr. conant however is n't about take gift lawyer michael quinn says does n't want land back value has declined was donated due vandalism poor maintenance valspar had leased property mr. conant says has complied requests illinois epa site have empathy unfortunate situation goodwill is does n't mean legal obligation attaches says leo g. stern lawyer valspar valspar mr. conant argue goodwill does n't have standing bring suit litigation progresses pretrial fact-finding stage goodwill bills continue mount has already spent more security guards fences site charity also owes back taxes property tax-exempt status applies only property is being used charitable purposes state illinois has sued goodwill share cleanup costs second site former paint factory chicago property was donated goodwill artra group inc. northbrook ill. company interests fashion jewelry accessories goodwill later sold site says was indication contamination charity officials now say congress exempt nonprofit organizations receive land donations cleanup liability seems unlikely everyone wants exemption says david van slyke lawyer enforcement compliance division federal epa agency is trying be equitable 're not trying jam people are innocent party now goodwill mr. wadsworth lectures other charities accepting land donations 's supposed be gift says turn be liability