cineplex odeon corp. directors said company chairman chief executive garth drabinsky is considering bidding canadian dollars acquire company board said mr. drabinsky vice chairman myron gottlieb are negotiating financing offering share acquire cineplex shares outstanding directors added executives have n't reached final decision proceed bid offer is made board continue seeking higher offers other bidders directors said messrs. drabinsky gottlieb mail offer shareholders nov. reimburse maximum expenses related bid consider bid is acceptable bid said sandra kolber spokeswoman independent directors committee appointed last may solicit review bids company wake dispute mr. drabinsky cineplex major shareholder mca inc mca cineplex other major shareholder montreal-based financier charles bronfman associates have agreed tender holdings offer mr. drabinsky higher offer is made bidder mca holds cineplex equity % voting rights restricted voting shares bronfman interests hold % company equity ms. kolber said committee had received other bids declined identify other bidders said mr. drabinsky offer is cash 's company several cineplex analysts have speculated outside bids received committee were either disappointingly low only part company has really established is mca bronfmans have agreed price be bought said jeffery logsdon analyst crowell weedon los angeles bid materializes price shareholders have reason be glad question financing still remains last april mr. drabinsky group financial backers planned acquire % cineplex share bronfman associates mr. drabinsky have had right vote shares years said purchase subsequently rejected regulators was aimed consolidating control company mca strongly opposed drabinsky group move directors did n't indicate source financing mr. drabinsky new proposal said mca bronfman associates agreed principle buy then lease back cineplex 18-screen theater complex universal city calif. mr. drabinsky succeeds offer is being done suggestion mr. drabinsky accommodate facilitate financing arrangements ms. kolber said addition directors said bid mr. drabinsky is successful cineplex expects rank organisation plc acquire % cineplex film house unit does n't own provide mr. drabinsky additional loan financing michael gifford rank chief executive said british theater chain total involvement n't exceed declined give breakdown loan financing proposed film house purchase cineplex shareholders responded coolly yesterday announcement trading new york stock exchange cineplex closed down cents more shares changing hands toronto stock exchange cineplex closed off canadian cents well level 's bid asked pierre panet-raymond analyst broker toronto securities dealer mcdermid st. lawrence ltd mr. panet-raymond said does n't think messrs. drabinsky gottlieb are anywhere close arranging financing investors need solid offer stock begins rise again mr. drabinsky n't be reached comment