was richard nixon first visit china set motion historic rapprochement beijing washington former u.s. president sixth visit china spoke length chinese leaders was nowhere near successful easing strains have recently afflicted sino-u.s. relationship mr. nixon most prominent american come china beijing bloody suppression pro-democracy demonstrators june harped international outrage massacre chinese turn took aim american interference china domestic affairs official newspaper legal daily even directly criticized mr. nixon is normally referred here old friend paper accused being leading proponent peaceful evolution catch phrase describe china believes is policy western countries seduce socialist nations capitalist sphere tension was evident wednesday evening mr. nixon final banquet toast normally opportunity reciting platitudes eternal friendship instead mr. nixon reminded host chinese president yang shangkun americans have n't forgiven china leaders military assault june killed hundreds perhaps thousands demonstrators many united states including many friends china believe crackdown was excessive unjustified mr. nixon told mr. yang was directly involved ordering attack events april june damaged respect confidence most americans previously had leaders china chinese responded equally undiplomatic fashion talks mr. nixon chinese leaders expressed regret killings even suggested u.s. was prominently involved demonstrations spring meeting tuesday supreme leader deng xiaoping told mr. nixon frankly speaking u.s. was involved too deeply turmoil counterrevolutionary rebellion occurred beijing not long ago china was real victim is unjust reprove china harsh exchanges u.s. china still seem be looking way mend relations have deteriorated mr. nixon referred greatest crisis chinese-american relations initial visit china years return toast mr. nixon mr. yang said relationship had reached stalemate relations china u.s. have been tense june chinese dissident fang lizhi wife li shuxian took refuge u.s. embassy beijing shortly afterwards mr. bush imposed series anti-china sanctions including suspension most high-level talks be codified u.s. congressional legislation coming weeks mr. nixon is traveling china private citizen has made clear is unofficial envoy bush administration mr. nixon met mr. bush national security adviser brent scowcroft coming china saturday plans brief president end week u.s. sources said mr. nixon was leave china today according american member nixon party former president raised number controversial issues hours talks top-level chinese officials included china economic policies human rights question mr. fang mr. nixon also proposed china restore participation fulbright program u.s. government-funded academic exchange china pulled program july talks former president urged china leaders acknowledge nation is part world community welcome infusion outside contacts ideas ideas are going borders 's sdi ideological weapon shoot told group americans u.s. embassy wednesday are signs however china yielding key issues minor matter mr. nixon appears have gained concession meeting premier li peng monday mr. nixon said hoped n't encounter guards machine guns visit u.s. embassy sure enough arrived embassy days later machine-gun-toting guards were gone first time months few blocks away u.s. ambassador residence guards encircling compound also had discarded uzi-model arms first time early june guards there retained pistols large contingent plainclothes police remained nearby unmarked cars moreover police soldiers continue harass americans have filed several protests foreign ministry past week several times chinese guards have pointed automatic rifles young children u.s. diplomats clicked trigger rifles were n't loaded