seems be season revivals chicago though cubs championship season ended national league playoffs revival organic theater production bleacher bums play innings set wrigley field bleachers continues spitting distance ballpark revivals different sort also are being offered major theater troupes goodman steppenwolf is more problematic unexpected divisional baseball championship help explain chicago remains vital center country regional theater movement goodman is offering modernized version moliere misanthrope nov. original is comedy alceste man sees falseness vanity everyone is jealous friend philinte jealous lover celimene play is filled intrigue dishonesty injustice years ago poet richard wilbur modernized 17th-century comedy merely avoiding sort thing wrote introduction otherwise scene remained celimene house assuming modern audiences readily understand moliere social indictment covers world as well 17th-century paris mr. wilbur concentrated formidable artistry rendering alexandrine french verse sprightly theatrical english iambic pentameter wilbur translation is remarkable well worth read even better seen theater ever have opportunity happen be coming chicago next few weeks do n't fail have look robert falls misanthrope goodman mr. wilbur translation is finely ground lens see pettiness corruption 17th-century paris mr. falls production is mirror see mr. falls goodman artistic director took recent adaptation neil bartlett significantly adapted mr. bartlett had slimmed moliere cast characters set london media world thatcherite britain mr. falls transfers setting hollywood transforms characters passes aristocracy there agents producers actors writers sycophants works mr. bartlett managed more less maintain moliere alexandrine verse form syllable lines rhyming couplets mr. falls kept form americanized mr. bartlett further help splendid cast led david darlow alceste christina haag celimene especially william brown philinte plays hollywood game harbors authentic values feelings goodman production barrels all-night hollywood party exuberance wit version references steven spielberg spago thirtysomething attracts younger audiences stay away classical version then messrs. bartlett falls are justified abandoning mr. wilbur 300-year-old play be easier revive one merely steppenwolf theatre company back critical box office success london adaptation steinbeck grapes wrath opened new season harold pinter homecoming first produced royal shakespeare company back then mr. pinter was not only angry young british playwright also first use silences sentence fragments menacing stares almost exclusion previously understood be theatrical dialogue homecoming was first produced side atlantic actors directors were reverential silences were lengthy nobody moved gestured nobody smiled onstage nobody audience was encouraged laugh kind theater was new also was not funny time here vietnam war democratic convention assassinations riots jerry perry direction current steppenwolf production scheduled play nov. breaks flat boring ritual homecoming had become led near-perfect performance alan wilder max father play is once appalling hilarious dissection family rage bitterness fear isolation encouraged mr. wilder sly grins embarrassed grimaces sputtering rages audience gets joke begins laugh end first act family members max sons lenny joey live flesh max is retired butcher lenny pimp joey aspiring boxer sam max brother has escaped flesh working liveried chauffeur never seeking wife teddy eldest max sons has made most dramatic escape becoming professor philosophy american university 's clearly max wife held sway here death now none other male residents misbegotten household challenge max play concerns teddy homecoming wife years ruth curiously randall arney teddy seems only cast member unable get zombie approach pinter character ruth moira harris large beautiful woman be next colleen dewhurst begins almost immediately overpower men end teddy returns alone america leaving ruth max chair have seen develop few hours shy unknown in-law goddess flesh replace dead mother then some steppenwolf was london grapes wrath bruce sagan president board directors quietly returned chicago buy piece real estate city rapidly reviving north halsted street restaurant theater district year hopes steppenwolf move new 500-seat theater site troupe currently performs converted dairy seats provides little capacity staging anything simple one-set production wanted stage death salesman mr. sagan says willie loman have live ranch house low ceiling steppenwolf needs extra seats even more fly space 's currently forced turn many potential subscribers be accommodated present digs attention chicago theater has received past decade not new building has been devoted mr. sagan former publisher real estate developer has put together financial package includes approximately tax exempt bonds issued state illinois first time state has used educational facilities authority support construction theater approximately grants national endowment arts macarthur foundation few other deep pockets rest is confident be raised board members alone have pledged is just beginning massage local foundations corporations mr. sagan compares importance steppenwolf orson welles mercury theater '30s welles theater company turned have brief say mercurial existence mr. sagan do new theater building allure hollywood broadway proves too much such steppenwolf stalwarts john malkovich dangerous liaisons joan allen heidi chronicles glenne headly lonesome dove company crumbles 's ok mr. sagan replies let building be steppenwolf legacy chicago theater mr. henning is chicago-based law firm management consultant writer