criticism u.s. recent japanese acquisitions is looming ever larger countries relations officials nations say u.s. public skittishness japanese investment color second round bilateral economic talks scheduled next week washington not washington tokyo disagree japanese acquisitions indeed has come favor unfettered investment u.s disagree is subject u.s. direct investment japan u.s. wants removal perceives barriers investment japan denies are real barriers heated talk stirred recent japanese investments u.s. is focusing attention differences investment climate even 's only many subjects be covered bilateral talks known structural impediments initiative japanese see rhetoric signal need change own economy says charles dallara u.s. assistant treasury secretary has been tokyo week informally discussing impending negotiations government business leaders have long history maintaining open direct-investment policy mr. dallara says u.s. investors have greater opportunity direct investment japan japanese fret openly u.s. public rancor clear sign japan nervousness came week spokesman japan foreign ministry devoted nearly regular half-hour briefing foreign journalists subject recent japanese investments u.s believe is vitally important japanese business interests u.s be more aware emotions concerns american people said spokesman taizo watanabe same time though chastised media paying such close attention japanese investment other foreign countries notably britain are acquiring more american assets fears japanese investors are buying america have escalated sharply past several weeks sony corp. purchase columbia pictures entertainment inc. coca-cola co. mitsubishi estate co. acquisition % holding rockefeller group owner midtown manhattan most exclusive real estate even moves added fuel fires discontent had been well stoked highly publicized experience japan u.s. investor t. boone pickens jr texas oilman has acquired % stake valued more automotive-lighting company koito manufacturing co has failed gain influence company koito has refused grant mr. pickens seats board asserting is greenmailer trying pressure koito other shareholders buying profit mr. pickens made considerable political hay troubles japan senate finance committee chaired fellow texan democratic sen. lloyd bentsen last month urged u.s. trade representative carla hills use mr. pickens experience talks tokyo highlight problem facing americans seek access japanese capital markets mr. dallara japanese officials say question investors access u.s. japanese markets get disproportionate share public attention number other important economic issues be table next week talks are differences savings investment rates corporate structures management government spending side has litany recommendations other u.s. says is anxious results feel very strongly really need action full range issues 've identified need next spring mr. dallara says sides have agreed talks be most successful negotiators start focusing areas be most easily changed have n't clarified be first set meetings months ago u.s. officials complained japan had n't come specific changes was prepared make japanese retort first round was too early make concessions just say distribution system is wrong does n't mean anything says ministry international trade industry official need clarify exactly is wrong process sorting specifics is likely take time japanese say matter badly u.s. wants quick results instance first meeting sides n't even agree basic data used price discussions then team about miti u.s. commerce department officials have crossed globe gauging consumer prices monday hope have sheaf documents sides trust little little is progress says miti official sides are taking action elisabeth rubinfien contributed article