chemical industry is expected report profits eroded third quarter skidding prices commodity end business producers commodity chemicals basic chemicals produced huge volumes other manufacturers have seen sharp inventory cutting buyers once chief beneficiaries industry now fading boom producers also be reporting exceptionally strong performances third quarter companies be first quarter year-to-year negative comparisons says leonard bogner chemical industry analyst prudential bache research be first down quarters perhaps most prominent dow chemical co. midyear had racked consecutive record quarters is expected report profit decreased latest quarter year earlier only shade dow has aggressively diversified specialty chemicals pharmaceuticals company still has big stake polyethylene is used packaging housewares analysts third-quarter estimates midland mich. company are share share compared year ago profit was sales dow spokeswoman declined comment estimates investment firm smith barney harris upham co. commodity-chemical segment is seen pulling overall profit companies representative whole industry % % find commodities off more others diversified companies about even slightly better says james wilbur smith barney analyst first boston corp. projects companies follows report lower profit most have big commodity-chemical operations still industry giants are expected report continuing gains largely so much business is commodity chemicals du pont co. is thought have had steady profit growth white pigments fibers polymers moreover wilmington del. company is helped prices weaken commodity chemicals buys own production needs such ethylene analysts are divided du pont report much gain latest quarter conoco inc. oil company estimates du pont range share third quarter company earned share sales du pont declined comment monsanto co. too is expected continue reporting higher profit even sales crop chemicals were hurt latest quarter drought northern europe western u.s st. louis-based company is expected report again losses g.d. searle co. pharmaceutical business are narrowing searle continued operate red first half year monsanto has said expects searle post profit most estimates monsanto run share year ago company posted third-quarter profit share sales monsanto declined comment commodity-chemical producers are caught downside pricing cycle accounts wall street industry inventory reductions are end presage firmer demand doubters say growing production capacity keep pressure prices early 1990s latest quarter least profit is expected fall sharply himont inc. far down is do n't know says leslie ravitz salomon brothers projections are neighborhood cents share cents compared restated share year earlier profit was sales himont faces lower prices mainstay product polypropylene goes forward heavy capital investment program bolster raw material supply develop new uses polypropylene markets include packaging automobile industries company based wilmington del. is 81%-owned montedison s.p a. milan has offer outstanding himont shares does n't already own quantum chemical corp. new york trouble is lower prices polyethylene higher debt costs idling important plant due explosion analysts hedge estimates quantum is n't known company book certain one-time charges estimates range break-even cents share third quarter quantum earned share sales big polyethylene producer union carbide corp. is expected post profit share compared share year earlier company earned sales himont quantum union carbide declined comment