u.s. is finalizing steel-import quotas is allocating larger share steel market developing newly industrialized countries have relatively unsubsidized steel industries meanwhile u.s. has negotiated significant cut japan steel quota made only minor increase steel allotment european community brazil similar mexico south korea is expected negotiate somewhat bigger share u.s. market had previous five-year steel quotas expired sept. brazil venezuela are only countries have n't completed steel talks u.s. year ending oct. recent years u.s. steelmakers have supplied about % tons steel used annually nation remaining % needed steel-quota negotiations allocate about % foreign suppliers difference supplied mainly canada is n't included quota program other countries do n't have formal steel quotas u.s. such taiwan sweden argentina also have supplied steel countries have recent years made informal agreements u.s. are similar quotas bush administration earlier year said extend steel quotas known voluntary restraint agreements march also said use two-and-a-half year period work international consensus freeing international steel trade has been notoriously managed subsidized protected governments u.s. termed plan trade liberalization program fact is merely extension mexico was first countries conclude steel talks u.s. virtually doubled quota % u.s. steel market % previous quotas south korea had % previous quotas is set get small increase about % increase rises slightly more % u.s. market joint korean-u.s. steel project is included meanwhile brazil is expected increase allowance % share has had recent years ec japan u.s. largest steel suppliers have n't been filling quotas full extent ec steel industry has been coping strong european demand has been supplying about % u.s. market compared recent quotas about % japan has been shipping steel total about % u.s. market compared quota % recent talks ec had quota increased about tons % u.s. market % quota has been as high % japan however has agreed cut quota about % % previously japan ec brazil mexico south korea provide about % steel imported u.s. quota program balance is supplied host smaller exporters such australia venezuela u.s. had about extra % domestic steel market give foreign suppliers quota talks was essentially made % increase overall quota program % cutting japan allowance negotiators white house trade office repeat quota negotiations year have % u.s. steel market allocate optional 1%-a-year increases steel quota program are built bush administration steel-quota program give negotiators leverage foreign steel suppliers try get withdraw subsidies protectionism own steel industries