many skittish mutual fund investors picked phone yesterday decided not cash chips stock market bounced back withdrawals money stock funds amounted mere trickle compared black monday investors dumped % stock-fund assets fidelity investments nation largest fund company said phone volume was more double typical level still half oct. net outflows fidelity stock funds stood less % cash position firm stock portfolios much money was switched firm money market funds outflows close trading friday remain one-third level years ago fidelity said other mutual fund companies reported even lighter withdrawal requests investors fidelity elsewhere even began buying stock funds day years ago was lot redemption activity trouble people getting through phone said kathryn mcgrath head investment management division securities exchange commission time do n't have course relative calm be jolted market plunges again strong surge redemptions force funds dump stocks raise cash did black monday funds generally are better prepared time around group cash position % assets august latest figure available is % higher years earlier many fund managers have boosted cash levels recent weeks biggest flurry investor activity came early day vanguard group inc. saw heavy exchanges stock funds money market funds telephone lines opened a.m first hour real nervous folks came along spokesman said horrendous pace call volume first half-hour slowed considerably scudder stevens clark inc. phone calls came % more normal pace early afternoon most increase came first hour phone lines opened a.m stocks rose fact investors changed course reversed sell orders many funds allow investors void orders close trading scudder smaller ivy funds group hingham mass. instance shareholders called early morning switch money stock funds money market funds later called back reverse switches mutual fund trades do n't take effect market close case p.m. shareholders effectively stayed put fidelity office downtown boston gerald sherman walked in shortly a.m. placed order switch retirement accounts stock funds money market fund p.m. market comfortably ahead day mr. sherman was preparing undo switch 's nice feeling know things stabilized said mr. sherman 51-year-old co-owner discount department store investors continued switch out high-yield junk funds yesterday rebound market recent price declines shareholders have been steadily bailing out several big junk funds past several weeks market was jolted cash crunch campeau corp. steadily declining prices much money has been switched money market funds fund executives say instead selling bonds meet redemptions however funds have borrowed banks meet withdrawal requests avoids knocking prices further t. rowe price high yield fund was funds borrowed campeau crisis says george j. collins president t. rowe price associates inc way mr. collins says did n't have sell securities sloppy market market stabilized added firm sold bonds quickly paid loans back tom herman contributed article