pierre peladeau canadian newspaper publisher little-known u.s. figures become big player north american printing ambitions do n't end there yesterday quebecor inc. montreal printing publishing forest-products company 53%-owned mr. peladeau agreed acquire maxwell communication corp. u.s. printing subsidiary maxwell graphics inc. cash securities purchase expected be completed year end make quebecor second-largest commercial printer north america only r.r. donnelley sons co. chicago printing customers quebecor gain maxwell graphics include sunday newspaper supplement parade time sports illustrated tv guide transaction is just mr. peladeau latest step larger design build quebecor acquisitions integrated paper publishing printing concern reach north america already has achieved vertical integration limited scale quebecor put weekly newspaper almost quebec doorstep using outside help chopping tree making newsprint flinging porch analysts say quebecor purchase is part trend consolidation north american printing industry donnelley says jacques massicotte analyst nesbitt thomson deacon inc. montreal quebecor has positioned key players adds think is great strategic move quebecor are buying operation is running well mr. peladeau says is n't trying catch donnelley has annual sales size does n't matter mr. peladeau says counts is bottom line mr. peladeau ventures including earlier push u.s. market have n't paid bottom line quebecor started philadelphia journal daily tabloid closed years later venture cost quebecor mr. peladeau says more recently former quebecor executives started own printing company specializing printing distributing advertising circulars quebecor still lags quebec circulars market mr. peladeau former employees are expanding canada mr. peladeau took first big gamble years ago took advantage strike la presse then montreal dominant french-language newspaper launch journal montreal tabloid circulation soared plunged la presse strike ended still mr. peladeau stuck venture now journal flush ads hugely profitable is even la presse weekend circulation outsells weekday mr. peladeau has never made apologies publishing tabloid brash mix crime sports 've read balzac answers critics 's tabloid news a z quebecor also publishes second tabloid montreal struggling 18-month-old montreal daily news dailies quebec city winnipeg manitoba dozens weeklies covering most quebec series recent acquisitions made dominant magazine publisher quebec recent merger is also only province-wide distributor magazines newspapers quebec finally maxwell communication company controls % donohue inc. quebec city pulp paper concern yesterday accord quebecor agreed pay cash maxwell graphics give maxwell communication % stake valued quebecor new printing subsidiary new as yet unnamed subsidiary combine quebecor existing printing unit maxwell graphics have plants coast coast annual sales quebecor own % new subsidiary caisse depot placement quebec government pension-fund agency pay remaining % stake printing operation pierre-karl peladeau founder son executive charge acquisition says quebecor has n't decided finance share purchase says most likely use debt maxwell deal is quebecor second big printing acquisition just year last october quebecor bought canadian printing plants bce inc. montreal telecommunications manufacturing energy real estate company purchase doubled quebecor annual printing revenue maxwell sale u.s. printing unit was expected last major business be disposed major reshuffling assets according most recent annual report covering months ended march maxwell communication bought assets including macmillan inc. official airlines guides sold non-strategic businesses now maxwell founder robert maxwell says has appetite new acquisitions u.s. adding spend good deal more u.s. purchase london trading yesterday maxwell communication shares rose pence pence montreal quebecor multiple voting class a stock closed down canadian cents quebecor class b stock closed up canadian cents craig forman london contributed article