house public works transportation committee approved bill give transportation department power block airline leveraged buy-outs clear veto threat bush administration vote clears way consideration house floor week week transportation secretary samuel skinner letter committee warned urge president bush veto legislation passed congress senate commerce committee already has approved similar legislation monday letter mr. skinner deputy elaine chao said administration opposed legislation present form bill supporters had taken heart fact letter was n't signed mr. skinner did n't contain veto threat stepped-up administration warnings annoyed lawmakers especially senior republicans supported bill thought transportation department favored backed bill thought help skinner republican said now 're there dangling wind few weeks mr. skinner testified congress be cleaner more efficient had authority block buy-outs advance never took official position bill has steadfastly maintained already has enough authority deal buy-outs committee bill transportation secretary have days additional days needed review proposed purchase % more major u.s. airline voting stock secretary be required block acquisition concluded so weaken airline financially hurt safety reduce carrier ability compete gave control foreign interest legislation apply acquisition major airline is aimed transactions financed large amounts debt supporters bill are concerned airline sacrifice costly safety measures order repay debt panel action occurs politically charged atmosphere surrounding recent buy-out proposals apparent collapse volatile conditions stock market became apparent hearings be regulation leveraged buy-outs sort rep. james oberstar d. minn. chairman house aviation subcommittee said panel deliberations do n't believe airline business be totally high degree public interest stake mr. skinner disagreed calling legislation retreat policy deregulaton airline industry letter committee chairman glenn anderson d. calif. secretary also said bill be odds administration policies welcoming open foreign investment market allocation resources currently transportation department does n't have authority block takeover advance however secretary concludes transaction has made carrier unfit operate department revoke certificate grounding airline such authority is more adequate say opponents legislation supporters argue grounding airline is so drastic department hesitate doing panel rejected proposal pushed amr corp. parent american airlines allow transportation secretary block corporate raiders waging proxy fights oust boards oppose leveraged buy-out also voted proposals give secretary much more discretion block buy-out require department consider impact buy-out workers