internal revenue service has threatened criminal sanctions lawyers fail report detailed information clients pay more cash warnings issued least criminal defense attorneys several major cities last week have led outcry members organized bar claim information is protected attorney-client privilege irs warnings stem law requires anyone receives more cash client customer more related transactions course trade business report payment document known form form asks such details client name social security number passport number details services provided payment failure complete form had been punishable misdemeanor last november congress determined crime was felony punishable years prison attorneys have argued law took effect not provide information clients do n't wish identities be known many attorneys have returned incomplete forms irs recent years citing attorney-client privilege last week irs rarely acted incomplete forms form forces lawyer become effect witness client said neal r. sonnett president national association criminal defense lawyers irs is asking lawyers red-flag criminal problem government added mr. sonnett miami lawyer has heard dozens attorneys received letters recent days has received computer-generated irs forms sent certified mail mr. sonnett said clients pay cash include alleged drug dealers do n't have domestic bank accounts individuals not necessarily be investigation hire lawyers mr. sonnett said also be other circumstances individuals n't want government know had retained criminal defense lawyers filling detailed forms individuals tip irs spark action clients said defense lawyers group formed task force week chaired new york attorney gerald lefcourt deal matter american bar association house delegates passed resolution condemning irs reporting requirement michael ross new york lawyer heads aba grand jury committee said lawyers are prohibited aba code ethics disclosing information client court orders prevent client committing criminal act result death mr. ross said met officials irs justice department bring enforcement actions taxpayers discuss issue last may meeting said justice department assured enforcement procedures n't be threatened attorneys further review advance notice mr. ross said irs officials opposed justice department moderate stance matter letters sent recent days christopher j. lezovich irs computing center detroit told attorneys failing voluntarily submit requested information result summons enforcement action being initiated cases irs asked information dating back forms received spokesman irs confirmed has been correspondence mailed incomplete 8300s declined say letters were sent lawyers now individuals familiar justice department policy said justice officials had n't knowledge irs actions last week lawyers worry provide information clients data quickly end up hands prosecutors prosecutors need court permission obtain tax returns individual business have obtained 8300 forms court permission used information help develop criminal cases criminal lawyers speculated irs was sending letters test issue number recent cases federal courts have refused recognize attorneys assertions information relating fees clients be confidential war federal judicial salaries takes victim often judges ease more lucrative private practice little fanfare not federal judge raul a. ramirez sacramento calif tuesday judge called news conference say was quitting effective dec. join san francisco law firm reason refusal congress give federal judges raise couple law clerks were going pass years was afraid was going have ask loan judge quipped interview federal judges make annually february congress rejected bill have increased pay % judge ramirez said is unjust judges make do judges are not getting deserve look professional ballplayers accountants nobody blinks eye become federal judge sudden are relegated paltry sum new job partner charge federal litigation sacramento office orrick herrington sutcliffe make much better judge declined discuss salary detail said 'm going be high-priced lawyer doonesbury creator's union troubles are laughing matter cartoonist garry trudeau is suing writers guild america east alleging mounted campaign harass punish crossing screenwriters picket line dispute involves darkhorse productions inc. tv production company mr. trudeau is co-owner mr. trudeau writers guild member also was employed writer darkhorse was covered guild collective-bargaining agreement guild began strike tv movie industry march lawsuit mr. trudeau says strike illegally included darkhorse cartoonist refused honor strike company spokesman guild said union lawyers are reviewing suit said disciplinary proceedings are confidential declined comment are being held mr. trudeau mr. trudeau attorney norman k. samnick said harassment consists mainly guild year-long threats disciplinary action mr. samnick said guild disciplinary hearing is scheduled monday new york mr. samnick go disciplinary panel said proceedings are unfair punishment guild be unjustified addition damages suit seeks court order preventing guild punishing retaliating mr. trudeau abortion ruling upheld federal appeals court upheld lower court ruling u.s. bar use federal funds family-planning programs include abortion-related services department health human services rule adopted prohibits use so-called title x funds programs assist woman obtaining abortion such abortion counseling referrals rule also prohibits funding activities encourage promote advocate abortion title x funds are single largest source federal funding family-planning services according opinion second u.s. circuit court appeals new york panel ruled restrictions do n't violate freedom speech health care providers limits counseling services do n't violate rights pregnant women inquiry clears texas judge bias comments homosexual murder victims dallas district judge jack hampton had sparked calls judicial inquiry remarks press last december weeks sentencing 18-year-old defendant years state prison killing homosexual men city park judge was quoted referring victims queers saying n't have been killed had n't been cruising streets picking teenage boys robert r. murray special master appointed texas supreme court said judge hampton did n't breach judicial standards fairness did violate state judicial code commenting publicly pending case observing judge has never exhibited bias prejudice mr. murray concluded be impartial case involving homosexual prostitute victim mr. murray also said judge hampton comments did n't discredit judiciary administration justice report is subject review state commission judicial conduct is empowered impose sanctions gaf trial goes round attorneys third stock-manipulation trial gaf corp. began opening arguments yesterday manhattan courtroom u.s. district judge mary johnson lowe eight-count indictment government has charged gaf wayne n.j. specialty chemical maker vice chairman james t. sherwin attempting manipulate common stock union carbide corp. advance gaf planned sale large block stock november first gaf trials ended mistrials earlier year trial is expected last weeks switching defense former member prosecution team affair joined chicago firm mayer brown platt michael r. bromwich member january three-lawyer trial team prosecution oliver north became partner washington d.c. office 520-lawyer firm specialize white-collar criminal defense work mr. bromwich also has served deputy chief chief narcotics unit u.s. attorney office southern district new york based manhattan