thomas w. wathen went big league last year acquired treasure-trove americana well-known ailing security business pinkerton inc was wanted poster offering rewards arrest express train robbers frank james jesse w. james original pinkerton logo open eye inscription never sleep inspired phrase private eye then were gold watches once owned allan pinkerton founded company chicago were supposed be mr. wathen company claims missing watch is emblematic problems mr. wathen encountered building closely held california plant protection security service largest detective security agency u.s. acquisitions ever-optimistic mr. wathen has learned acquiring big brand-name company be shortcut growth also bring host unforeseen problems cleared lot rats nests says 60-year-old security veteran mr. wathen started career air force investigator worked security officer several large companies built california plant protection tiny mom-and-pop security patrol firm here san fernando valley joined firm bought owners next year next years california plant protection opened offices country california plant protection was netting bigger bigger clients firm provided security summer olympics los angeles still did n't have name recognition pinkerton so american brands inc. decided sell unit part divestiture food security industries operations mr. wathen saw chance accomplish several objectives decided easily merge pinkerton operations own while slashing overhead costs already operated many same cities acquire staff loyal pinkerton employees had spent entire careers firm eliminate competitor get name recognition 'd wanted mr. wathen also relished chance demonstrate entrepreneur 'd spent whole career security business run pinkerton better unfocused conglomerate investment banker security business is favorite subject love business says most lbo guys do n't know run business anyway were hitches not least was mr. wathen says proceeded almost blindly doing acquisition was completed january were n't allowed do due diligence competitive reasons had have scared says years rapid expansion american brands emphasis marketing agency services instead improving had hurt pinkerton profits mr. wathen claims says team n't tell accounts receivable had been paid not pinkerton had locked low-price contracts win new business hope profitability contracts expired adds regional offices were egregiously overstaffed claims office had people doing work half employees had company automobiles american brands declined comment mr. wathen accusations acquisition combined country second-largest security company pinkerton sales fourth largest california plant protection sales creating industry biggest firm took pinkerton name even divesting unprofitable business new pinkerton have sales about year operating profit roughly double industry average 2%-3 % sales says lloyd greif sutro co. los angeles arranged pinkerton acquisition mr. wathen says turnaround strategy has been simple just hack fat began closing combined companies offices months eliminating about % company 2,500-person adminstrative staff including more sales positions shut company tony new york headquarters pinkerton world headquarters today is nondescript two-story office building street small van nuys airport next mr. wathen raised pinkerton rates were 75-cents-an-hour lower california plant protection average rate got rid low-margin businesses just were n't making money company mr. wathen says pinkerton had loss nearly american brands boasts 's made pinkerton profitable again mr. wathen team still pay about long-term bank debt acquisition next years last year earnings combined companies did n't cover debt service pinkerton was forced borrow subordinated debt n't have had refinance lot problems had n't been there mr. wathen says year mr. wathen says firm be able service debt still turn modest profit now pinkerton become entangled protracted legal fracas former parent company recently filed suit state court los angeles american brands seeking least damages old greenwich conn.-based company suit alleges american brands misrepresented financial condition pinkerton sale failed disclose pending lawsuits material contracts pinkerton was default had n't registered pinkerton name trademark united kingdom did n't tell california plant protection labor controversies have previously had discussions representatives pinkerton inc. concerning sale company concluded did not have liability contract says american brands is now litigation matter have further comment then 's case missing gold watch lawsuit alleges inventory pinkerton memorabilia disclosed watches had n't been forked american brands american brand failure surrender gold watch has damaged new pinkerton amount as yet be determined deprived valuable artifact had bargained suit charges key pinkerton future be sticking does best being security company says mr. wathen company is also renewing emphasis investigations particularly undercover investigations corporations investigations now account only about % pinkerton total revenue side business has traditionally been more glamorous carries historical sentimental value author dashiell hammett wrote maltese falcon was former pinkerton detective american brands just had different approach mr. wathen says approach did n't work is