revco d.s. inc. drugstore chain filed bankruptcy-court protection last year received offer group led texas billionaire robert bass revco reacted cautiously saying plan add new debt highly leveraged company was revco huge debt leveraged buy-out forced seek protection chapter federal bankruptcy code revco insists proposal is simply expression interest chapter revco has exclusivity rights feb. rights prevent anyone other revco proposing reorganization plan also chapter reorganization plan is subject approval bondholders banks other creditors financial adviser revco bondholders david schulte chilmark partners had mixed reactions offer said feared revco reorganization force bondholders accept cheap deal bass group offer give more money however group is offering pay bondholders cash only equity revco bonds are high-yield high-risk junk bonds holders have claims revco mr. schulte said revco received offer oct. issued response yesterday only copy proposal was made public bondholders acadia partners limited partnership fort worth texas partnership includes robert m. bass group made proposal mr. bass is based fort worth analysts said nation second-largest drugstore chain was valuable company financial woes problem say is management paid too much leveraged buy-out current debt load is keeping revco red bought right price still be profitable said jeffrey stein analyst mcdonald co. cleveland addition revco stores states represent lot real estate said demographics are helping pharmacies nation aging population boost demand prescription drugs last week revco parent company anac holding corp. said company reported loss fiscal first quarter compared loss year-earlier quarter sales were up % previous year company based twinsburg ohio said operating profit depreciation amortization increased % acadia partners bass group declined comment partnership also includes american express co. equitable life assurance society u.s. shearson lehman hutton inc offer consists cash rest notes acadia sell % equity reorganized company creditors bondholders exchange cash distribution creditors bondholders receive discount shares revco chairman chief executive officer boake a. sells said company bondholders have put forth reorganization plans little progress has been made negotiations began summer said has not met representatives acadia reorganization proposal mr. sells said is difficult assess be agreed company bondholders banks other creditors revco has claims outstanding 's not board decide mr. sells said adding 're indifferent bass plan just want plan satisfies creditors end leaves healthy revco mr. schulte bondholders adviser said revco was dragging feet responding proposal want pretend does n't exist said mr. schulte met acadia representatives oct. said 's certainly responsible offer 's not effort steal company middle night