time jon levy be planning biggest spring season dress company years work day is studded intense moments concern biggest customers campeau corp dress business has always been gamble 's never been says mr. levy president st. gillian group ltd. has become hot name thanks campaign sexy tv commercials day mr. levy checks orders campeau department store chains trying guess be paid 'm now monitoring major account campeau owner such retailers bloomingdale bon marche jordan marsh sidestepped financial collapse last month emergency loan olympia york developments ltd. canadian developer major shareholder campeau need loan surprised many analysts bond holders had been told company annual meeting july were n't major problems ahead risk doing business campeau federated allied department store chains is increase greatly not only mr. levy hundreds other small apparel makers button suppliers trucking firms fabric houses next week country top designers manufacturers begin showing fashions spring second most important selling season year applause dies down showrooms seventh avenue broadway stylishly clad campeau buyers begin writing orders orders campeau retailers used be cause celebration is longer true because campeau massive debt load 's anybody wants talk says richard posner executive vice president credit exchange inc. leading credit service people wonder 's going happen next many manufacturers are worried being paid merchandise already shipped campeau stores dollars risk pale comparison investment required make ship spring goods campeau stores few dollars lose today is nothing lose spring line says mr. levy estimates campeau stores sell worth clothes year 'm buying fabric right now clothes not be paid april may happens campeau collapses now then credit concerns such bernard sands credit consultants inc. have told clients not ship anything federated allied stores credit is especially true spring merchandise says jim rindos credit manager bernard sands campeau has too much debt other credit houses such credit exchange solo credit service corp. are suggesting clients study order shipping payments are good right now are n't recommending long-term lines credit says richard hastings retail credit analyst referring credit lines make inventory purchases automatic campeau situation is little uncertain very difficult analyze concerns manufacturers say ask letters credit shipping spring merchandise 're being paid today 're worried tomorrow want letters credit says sales director major dress maker asked not be identified howard bloom president dress firm chetta b inc. says 's big time chaos today 'm going ship hope get paid need ask money up front later carol sanger vice president corporate communications campeau says federated allied chains are paying bills timely manner continue pay bills do so says ms. sanger 're confident be paying bills spring merchandise as well typically manufacturers are paid days month ship goods are shipped bloomingdale oct. oct. manufacturers expect be paid nov. manufacturers now buying fabric spring season goods n't be paid march april even may market question campeau be position pay bills time everybody is worried possibility cancellations says kurt barnard publisher barnard retail marketing report buyers work various campeau chains lose jobs stores work be sold mean manufacturers is anybody guess campeau financial situation is complicated estimated debt due next spring includes working capital facility allied stores matures march bridge loan due april company has stated recently filed financial documents anticipates refinancing march payments recent months numerous retailers have filed chapter bankruptcy protection including bonwit teller b. altman co. miller rhoads inc filings expected sale number financially healthy chains such saks fifth avenue marshall field bloomingdale have added anxiety right now federated owes considerable amount money says morris marmalstein president david warren enterprises major dress manufacturer expect be current debts end week are considering asking letters credit take more orders mr. marmalstein adds company is now holding goods anticipation being paid in full 's become day-by-day business says business has never been tough before not only does product have be excellent also have be able collect other manufacturers are equally cautious bud konheim president nicole miller inc. says company is now shipping only flagship stores federated allied chains limits financial exposure says branches are just warmed empty halls says mr. konheim be part problem 've got limited production n't give underperformers campeau ms. sanger disputes mr. konheim comments branches are very lucrative says 's just nonsense mr. levy st. gillian says maintain credit lines various campeau stores miss payment slip cents minutes stop says