dale lang week completed acquisition publisher ms. sassy is candid challenge is taking mr. lang admits ms. is dire straits sassy needs big promotional dollars keep alive 57-year-old publisher has moved quickly boldly deal magazines problems last friday told staff ms. magazine january begin publishing advertising mr. lang do away expensive circulation drives not mention sales staff attempt publish 17-year-old magazine supported circulation revenue alone fool publish money-losing magazine want publish one succeeds said mr. lang ms. 's time publish reader not advertiser sassy competes directly news corp. seventeen magazine mr. lang says next years spend promoting improving magazine though sassy has grown quickly debut march has been target conservative lobbyists skittish advertisers bristled frank editorial matter teen-age problems mr. lang said former australian owners sassy were blind-sided moral majority reaction was do nothing ride said sassy keep irreverent tone added keep close watch editorial content magazine sassy already has recovered circulation has quickly passed mark advertising pages have stabilized year more 's more mr. lang says has publishers wish bona fide niche seventeen is written more mothers not daughters said mr. lang sassy has different spirit gets more mail month mccall got year 's not mothers feel sassy did working woman years ago mr. lang took ms. sassy acquisition matilda publications inc. newly formed lang communications lang owns % matilda citicorp owns rest citicorp venture capital partners weeks ago citicorp mr. lang pumped matilda just keep doors open industry observers have congratulated mr. lang call courageous handling ms. track record magazine publishing general has gotten mixed reviews ms. sassy closely held lang communications includes success magazine entrepreneurs small businesses working woman working mother monthly magazines working woman circulation working mother circulation are legitimate magazine success stories magazine success however was years lackluster unfocused only recently has been attractively redesigned editorial product improved success is expected gain least recent folding rival venture magazine growing companies working woman working mother have operated part working group less-than-successful joint venture mr. lang time warner inc joint venture is being undone mccall magazine being sold last summer new york times co. magazine group about time warner agreeing sell % interest working woman working mother mr. lang executives time inc magazine co. subsidiary time warner have said joint venture mr. lang was n't good venture formed was supposed be time low-cost safe entry women magazines mr. lang surprised time soon joining forces said negotiate rates individually advertisers practice common broadcasting considered taboo magazine publishers addition mccall put less stellar performance recent comeback saw steep losses ad pages circulation time executives complained shoddy editorial quality end time executive asked not be identified said frankly mccall joint venture were embarrassment mr. lang feels time priorities changed management changed right venture was formed do n't think were comfortable getting competitive wars women service magazines today mr. lang believes magazines offer many women magazines do n't write straight women level said do n't have passive readers mr. lang points even success part fits company image about % readership is female mr. lang has named carol taber group publisher new york-based lang communications oversee working woman working mother success magazines retain post publisher working woman sale price mccall twice mr. lang originally paid finance lang communications buy-back time warner % interest working woman working mother mr. lang says is n't scouting new acquisitions least now have go outside banks get money am not ready do said besides have enough plate is plenty work be done have