search buyers upscale department-store chains such bloomingdale saks fifth avenue investment bankers are turning else japanese far japan cash-rich retailers are proving be cautious shoppers have money buy operating u.s. department-store chain be very difficult says motoyuki homma managing director international division mitsukoshi ltd. japan leading department stores japanese retail executives say main reason are reluctant jump fray u.s. is manufacturing retailing is extremely sensitive local cultures life styles japanese have watched europeans canadians stumble u.s. market fret business practices have won huge profits home n't translate success u.s japanese department stores are also wary attracting negative publicity sony corp. recent headline-grabbing acquisition columbia pictures many say makes good political sense lie low 's question timing says mayumi takayama managing director international operations isetan co. tokyo department store still long-term eye vast u.s. retail market is tempting time look bargains britain b.a.t industries plc is trying unwind u.s. retailing operations include such well-known stores saks fifth avenue marshall field breuners ivey debt-ridden campeau corp. toronto is giving 17-store bloomingdale group department store japan is taking look says mike allen retail analyst barclay de zoete wedd securities japan ltd mr. allen however does n't think japan is about embark major buying binge nonetheless speculation heated yesterday tokyu department store co. confirmed report nihon keizai shimbun japan leading business daily tokyu is talking campeau buying bloomingdale tokyu however said agreement had been reached is tokyu only japanese retailer interested bloomingdale bankers tokyo estimate cost japanese department-store groups were approached investment bankers representing bloomingdale chairman marvin traub more half are seeking additional information group bankers say mr. traub is hoping put together investment bankers say is management-led group buy new york department-store group heads campeau federated department stores subsidiary federated ran cash crunch was acquired last year campeau relied heavily debt finance transaction paying debt put squeeze campeau stores federated decided sell jewels retailing empire including bloomingdale hoping avoid takeover mr. traub retained blackstone group drexel burnham lambert inc. help find partners management-led buy-out ideally investment bankers say wants get backing japanese department store european department store forge global retailing network look economics traub needs japanese european partner make work says investment banker follows retail industry looking only narrow american strategy is n't 's persuading tradition-bound japanese retailers get involved turmoils u.s. retailing industry is n't likely be so easy analysts say up now most stores have followed same basic overseas strategy first set overseas merchandising offices import items track new fashion trends then opened small gift shops mostly aimed japanese tourists reluctant advance further own stores have settled tie-ups famous specialty shops last march isetan invested yen venture barney inc. up-scale new york specialty clothier first barney shop is scheduled open japan next year mitsukoshi recently increased equity stake tiffany co. % longstanding relationship companies mitsukoshi has opened tiffany shops stores arcades japan plans are way open tiffany hawaii cater japanese tourists be run mostly mitsukoshi industry observers say mitsukoshi classy image makes possible match saks fifth avenue company officials say are studying various proposals n't discuss details takashimaya co. japan oldest department store is name keeps popping potential fit saks eiji nakazato takashimaya general manager admits company image is similar saks is interest idea stops there like do business america says looks tough marcus w. brauchli contributed article compiled william mathewson vatican was red last year said regular deficit amounted based revenue expenses said extraordinary expenditures radio station restoration buildings increased deficit statement council cardinals said catholics had responded generously appeal last year give more money record deficit statement said % jump peter pence collection annual offering catholics pope helped cover deficit council member cardinal gerald carter toronto told vatican radio now say covered deficit year people are going relax say well 's fine holy see is hole 're going be exact same situation year former president richard nixon is visit china invitation government beginning saturday foreign ministry announced according mr. nixon office is solely fact-finding trip be no sightseeing shopping social events mr. nixon office said former president expects have one-on-one discussions major chinese leaders give assessment leaders president bush return poll conducted nato countries shows dutch appear be strongest supporters alliance poll conducted dutch daily de telegraaf gallup international said % dutch people supported nato canada was second most pro-nato country % supporting alliance followed u.s. % britain % belgium % west germany % other countries registered support % israeli manufacturers association filed police complaint arab pasta maker using colors outlawed palestinian flag spaghetti packages asked police investigate are allowed distribute flag way be considered law said danny leish spokesman association spaghetti is made al ghazel macaroni co. bethlehem is marketed package decorated green black red white stripes british postal authorities say have uncovered large-scale scheme unscrupulous stamp dealers chemically removed stamp cancellations regummed stamps sold u.s. collectors large lots british businesses scheme allegedly cost post office revenue past months dealers bought used stamps cheaply charities including guide dogs blind association charities regularly sell used stamps collect children other donors raise funds akio tanii president japan matsushita electric industrial co. presented u.s. consul general osaka check help san francisco earthquake victims company u.s. subsidiary matsushita electric corp. america had donated worth matsushita-made flashlights batteries residents shortly disaster company spokesman said several other japanese companies regional governments have sent aid san francisco sumitomo bank donated tokyo prefecture city osaka chinese officials are trying use canton trade fair lure overseas traders bloody crackdown dissent attendance is down previous years 's more hong kong textile trader says chinese exporters state-run enterprises are protesting crackdown dragging feet soliciting new business are angry government so hold goods said autumn edition biannual fair run oct. 156,000-square-yard glass exhibition complex products ranging clothing ak-47 machine guns are display fair officials say guests visited first days % drop spring exhibition china official xinhua news agency reported number foreign businessmen was greater previous fair providing statistics sign glasnost alexander solzhenitsyn long-banned chronicle soviet repression gulag archipelago is now recommended reading 11th-grade moscow history class british customs officers said arrested men sneaking rare snakes britain including man strapped pair boa constrictors armpits customs official said arrests followed snake day utrecht university netherlands event used collectors opportunity obtain rare snakes