anheuser-busch cos. said plans aggressively discount major beer brands setting stage potentially bruising price war maturing industry growth continues slow anheuser world largest brewer u.s. market leader has historically been reluctant engage price-cutting means boosting sales volume passing heady days swelling industry sales however once-sporadic brief forays discounting are becoming standard competitive weapons beer industry summer anheuser competitors offered more deeper discounts industry observers have seen long time experts now predict anheuser entry fray means near-term earnings trouble industry players st. louis company said major rivals philip morris co. miller brewing unit adolph coors co. have been following policy continuous deep discounting least past months premium brands pricing product as much cents 12-pack anheuser budweiser label many markets anheuser said 's discounting policy basically involve matching such moves rivals market-by-market basis anheuser-busch announced plan same time reported third-quarter net income rose lower-than-anticipated % cents share cents third-period sales were up last year anheuser said new strategy started markets last month expected be applied soon selected markets nationwide mean lower-than-anticipated earnings last half projection sent anheuser shares plunging new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday stock closed heavy volume shares shares coors company sole publicly traded major competitor fell apiece national over-the-counter trading apparently investor concerns potential fallout coming pricing struggle anheuser noted beer industry sales volume is is following trend has characterized last half '80s sales volume being essentially flat consolidation creates fewer bigger players not permit further slowing volume trend anheuser said adding take appropriate competitive pricing actions support long-term market share growth strategy premium brands anheuser said continues hold earlier-announced goal % u.s. market share mid-1990s tepid news-release jargon lies powerful threat brewing giant last year accounted % u.s. beer sales is expected see grow % current year anheuser is biggest guy bar just decided join barroom brawl said joseph j. doyle analyst smith barney harris upham co 's going get bloody jerry steinman publisher beer marketers insights trade newsletter said anheuser announcement means everybody else industry is going have difficult time reaching profit objectives prudential-bache securities inc. analyst george e. thompson downplayed importance announcement called comparison coming beer-industry tiff seemingly unending cola wars unwarranted mr. thompson calls discounting loser game anyone dominant market share projected anheuser statement intent simply be means warning competitors ease up price-cutting face costly fruitless battle mr. thompson noted disappointing earnings fell cents share short own projections contributed sell-off edgy currently unforgiving investing public smith barney mr. doyle yesterday trimmed anheuser earnings projection share called market reaction justified third-quarter earnings were moderate disappointment said real bad news is intensity price competition premium-beer sector according mr. steinman newsletter publisher anheuser market share is nearly twice nearest competitor miller brewing had % stake last year 's followed stroh brewery co. has agreed sell assets coors coors stroh have recently been ceding market share miller anheuser