slipping news smaller-than-expected u.s. inflation figure dollar rebounded later trading day u.s. unit dipped session low mark just release u.s. consumer price index report showed september consumer prices rose just % smaller increase expected market had anticipated % rise price index september index fueled speculation damaging dollar federal reserve soon ease monetary policy further foreign-exchange dealers said dollar staged quick comeback prompted round short covering fresh buying interest later trading day traders said nearly 40-point gain dow jones industrial average fueled part news lower-than-expected price index had little influence dollar moves market is beginning disassociate wall street said new york trader late new york trading yesterday dollar was quoted marks marks late wednesday yen yen late wednesday sterling was quoted late wednesday tokyo friday u.s. currency opened trading yen thursday tokyo close yen analysts said consumer price index reflects more significant slowdown u.s. economy earlier indicated point september producer-price index showed % increase noted consumer price index known cpi is more comprehensive measure inflation is rising less rapidly producer-price index ppi signal further easing fed others suggested however fed hold changes monetary policy check leaving fed funds % % level prevailed july september kevin logan chief economist swiss bank corp. said ppi cpi climbed % year-to-year september argued cpi ppi have fact decelerated spring fed n't be stampeded easing mr. logan said predicting now interest rates stay are four-day matched sale-purchase agreement move drain liquidity system was viewed technical move rather indication tightening credit market participants note mark continues post heftier gains u.s. counterpart other major currency particularly yen 's bottomless pit dollar demand japanese investors said graham beale managing director foreign exchange hongkong shanghai banking corp. new york adding purely speculative demand n't hold dollar recent levels japanese currency mr. beale commented mark remains well bid other currencies as well robert white manager corporate trading first interstate california called market psychologically pro-mark noting u.s. remains veritable grab bag japanese investors accounts unabated demand u.s. dollars commodity exchange new york gold dropped ounce moderate trading estimated volume was ounces early trading hong kong friday gold was ounce