really rather have buick do n't leave home american express card slogan go american express co. general motors corp. beleaguered buick division are joining forces promotion aimed boosting buick sales encouraging broader use american express card companies are giving four-day vacations buick buyers charge part payments american express green card have begun sending letters explaining program began oct. end dec. card holders company disclose program cost buick approached american express joint promotion card holders generally have good credit history are good making payments says spokeswoman division american express also represents upscale image 're trying project adds buick has been seeking past few years restore reputation doctor car product upscale professionals sales were roughly flat model year compared year earlier industry sales fell model year began oct. buick sales have plunged % american express promotion is part effort broaden use card retail sales company expects get much future growth card business traditionally card has been used mainly travel entertainment expenses phillip riese american express executive vice president says promotion buick is company first auto maker hopefully be first many company effort promote green card total car-care card end american express has been signing gasoline companies car repair shops tire companies car dealers accept card many auto dealers now let car buyers charge part purchase american express card few card holders realize mr. riese says now however buyers wanted finance part car purchase general motors acceptance corp. n't put down payment charge card possible conflicts truth-in-lending state disclosure laws finance rates says spokesman gm finance arm gmac approved buick program says american express green card requires payment full billing so does n't carry finance rates mr. riese says american express considers gm buick very sophisticated direct-mail marketers joining forces have managed maximize direct-mail capability addition buick is relatively respected nameplate american express card holders says american express spokeswoman company asked members mailing cars like get information possible future purchases buick came fourth u.s. cars top cars spokeswoman says american express has more card holders u.s. have green card gmac screened card-member list holders more years old household incomes had n't missed payments buick spokeswoman says get letters were preapproved credit gmac people also are eligible get percentage point gmac advertised finance rates start % two-year loan contracts spokesman visa international u.s. subsidiary says company is using promotions increase use cards does n't have plans tie-in similar american express-buick link divisions american express are working buick promotion establishment services division is responsible merchants companies accept card travel division merchandise sales division vacation packages include hotel accommodations cases tours tickets local attractions not meals destinations are chicago honolulu las vegas nev. los angeles miami beach fla. new orleans new york orlando fla. san francisco washington d.c. buyer chooses fly destination pay own ticket gets companion ticket free fly united airlines lieu vacation buyers choose several prizes including grandfather clock stereo videocassette recorder card holders receive letter also are eligible sweepstakes buick cars hawaii vacation prizes test-drive buick get american express calculator is n't buick first travel-related promotion few years company offered round-trip tickets trans world airlines buyers riviera luxury car promotion helped riviera sales exceed division forecast more % buick said time