japanese investment southeast asia is propelling region economic integration interviews analysts business people u.s. suggest japanese capital produce economic cooperation southeast asian politicians have pursued fits starts decades japan power region also is sparking fears domination posing fresh policy questions flow japanese funds has set motion process economies be knitted together great japanese investment machine says robert hormats vice chairman goldman sachs international corp past years japanese companies have tripled commitments asia thailand example government board investment approved japanese investment times u.s. investment figure year japan commitment southeast asia also includes steep increases foreign assistance trade asia other cash-rich countries are following japan lead pumping capital region taiwan south korea rising wages are forcing manufacturers seek other overseas sites labor-intensive production nations known asia little tigers also are contributing southeast asia integration influence remain subordinate japan recipient countries such thailand malaysia investment provide needed jobs spur growth asian nations harsh memories military domination japan early part century make fearful falling japanese economic hegemony now budget constraints washington u.s. encourages japan share economic burdens region resists yielding political ground coming decade analysts say u.s.-japanese relations be tested tokyo comes terms new status region economic behemoth japan swelling investment southeast asia is part economic evolution past decade japanese manufacturers concentrated domestic production export 1990s spurred rising labor costs strong yen companies increasingly turn multinationals plants world capture investment southeast asian nations move accommodate japanese business nations internal decisions be made way not offend largest aid donor largest private investor largest lender says richard drobnick director international business research program university southern california graduate school business japanese money help turn southeast asia more cohesive economic region analysts say asian cooperation is n't likely parallel european common market approach rather japanese investment spur integration certain sectors says kent calder specialist east asian economies woodrow wilson school public internatonal affairs princeton university electronics example japanese company make television picture tubes japan assemble sets malaysia export indonesia effect be pull asia together not common market integrated production zone says goldman sachs mr. hormats countries region also are beginning consider framework closer economic political ties economic foreign ministers asian pacific nations meet australia next week discuss global trade issues as well regional matters such transportation telecommunications participants include u.s. australia canada japan south korea new zealand as well members association southeast asian nations thailand malaysia singapore indonesia philippines brunei addition u.s. year offered own plan cooperation pacific rim major speech secretary state james baker following up proposal made january australian prime minister bob hawke baker proposal reasserts washington intention continue playing leading political role region asia europe new order is taking shape mr. baker said u.s. regional friends play crucial role designing architecture maintaining u.s. influence be difficult face japanese dominance region japan not only outstrips u.s. investment flows also outranks trade most southeast asian countries u.s. remains leading trade partner asia moreover japanese government now world largest aid donor is pumping far more assistance region u.s. is u.s. officials voice optimism japan enlarged role asia also convey undertone caution 's understanding part u.s. japan has expand functions asia says j. michael farren undersecretary commerce trade approach benevolent altruistic attitude be net gain everyone asian nations are apprehensive washington demand tokyo step military spending ease u.s. security burden region issue is further complicated uncertainty future u.s. leases military bases philippines possible u.s. troop reduction south korea many asians regard u.s. presence desirable counterweight japanese influence one wants u.s. pick marbles go home mr. hormats says part taiwan south korea are expected step own investments next decade try slow japanese juggernaut do n't want japan monopolize region sew says chong-sik lee professor east asian politics university pennsylvania