seventh avenue fur business here was flying high years ago jack purnick had workers large factory now half-dozen employees work eighth-floor shop says is smaller old storage room also says is losing money now blames imports just seventh avenue about % u.s. fur garments are made larry rosen has acquired retail outlets broadened fur-making line expanded leather credits imports difference lies entrepreneurial furriers reacted foreign competition transformation industry past years stuck old-line business traditions other embraced change small good fur salon is not used be says mr. purnick years old make finest product world americans are being kicked mr. rosen though believes imports have reinvigorated industry has worked most years 've got minds here n't think progressively says import competition u.s. furs has risen sharply furriers started aggressively marketing working-girl mink similar lower-priced imported furs recent years merchants discovered consumer largely ignored higher-priced furriers younger woman even late 20s never thought buy mink new market helped boost u.s. fur sales about year now triple level late 1970s also opened door furs made south korea china hong kong other countries jindo furs large south korean maker says operates retail outlets u.s. plans open more end next year mr. purnick other old-line furriers call many imports unstylish poorly made high-end u.s. furriers say imports have n't squeezed low-priced middle-priced furriers mr. purnick once saturated five-block seventh avenue fur district say imports have cut sales woman once have saved seasons buy u.s.-made mink now get imported mink right away less mr. rosen has turned import phenomenon advantage early decade saw fur workers many foreign countries were willing work longer hours lower wages american counterparts were more open innovation started factory greece years later opened west germany also noticed foreign makers were introducing many variations traditional fur decided follow suit combining strengths innovation quality control lower costs production abroad says has been able produce high-quality goods low cost maintain control production avoid overdependence foreign sources says still makes most furs u.s years ago also began importing far east inspired imports mr. rosen now makes fur muffs hats flings year produced men line offers dyed furs red cherry red violet royal blue forest green has leather jackets turkey are lined eel skin topped raccoon-skin collars asia has mink jackets floral patterns made using different colored furs next be testing pictured embroidery called kalega made far east plans attach embroidery backs mink coats jackets adding sales leathers also attract retailers buy furs later adds other furriers have also benefited leathers seymour schreibman 65-year-old owner schreibman raphael furs inc. treats reverse side persian lambskin produce reversible fur-and-leather garment says accounts % total sales mr. rosen is also pushing retail sales year bought stores brooklyn queens other furriers have also placed more weight retailing golden feldman furs inc. began retailing aggressively years ago now retail sales account about % gross income other moves mr. rosen says bought truck years ago reach more retailers then has expanded fleet now bring furs front door retailers far away midwest small retailers n't afford travel new york showroom have become fair game such moves have helped mr. rosen weather industry slump recent years industry enjoyed prosperous years beginning sales have languished peak large furriers such antonovich inc. fur vault inc. evans inc. reported losses latest fiscal years aftereffects stock market crash head list reasons addition competition has glutted market skins coats driving prices down animal-rights movement has n't helped sales warm winters past years have trimmed demand too furriers complain did n't move production overseas suffer labor shortages intensive labor needed manufacture furs u.s is not as available was says mr. schreibman is starting overseas production even have found way cope imports slump fear furs are losing part allure people are promoting furs various ways taking glamour fur business says stephen sanders divisional merchandise manager marshall field department store chicago n't make commodity luxury insists mr. purnick new york furrier contends chasing consumers low-priced imports harm industry long run reducing prestige furs mr. rosen responds people want buy sell name game is move goods