electronic theft foreign industrial spies disgruntled employees is costing u.s. companies billions eroding international competitive advantage was message delivered government private security experts all-day conference corporate electronic espionage hostile even friendly nations routinely steal information u.s. companies share own companies said noel d. matchett former staffer federal national security agency now president information security inc. silver spring md well be theft business data is as serious strategic threat national security is threat survival victimized u.s. firms said michelle van cleave white house assistant director national security affairs conference was jointly sponsored new york institute technology school management armed forces communications electronics association joint industry-government trade group secret be pirated experts said is transmitted air even rank amateurs do spend few dollars commercially available microwave receiver amplifier vcr recorder need only position company satellite dish wait have dozen competitors stealing secrets same time mr. matchett said adding 's pretty good bet n't get caught only way catch electronic thief said is set erroneous information even electronic espionage cost u.s. firms billions dollars year most are n't yet taking precautions experts said contrast european firms spend year electronic security are expected spend already foreign firms especially banks have own cryptographers conference speakers reported still encrypting corporate communications is only partial remedy expert job is so politically sensitive spoke condition n't be named quoted said expected influx east european refugees next few years greatly increase chances computer-maintenance workers example doubling foreign spies moreover said technology now exists stealing corporate secrets 've been erased computer memory said oliver north iran-contra notoriety thought had erased computer information was later retrieved congressional committees read personal computer not even chief executive desk is safe speaker noted w. mark goode president micronyx inc. richardson texas firm makes computer-security products provided new definition mikhail gorbachev campaign greater openness known commonly mr. gorbachev mr. goode said soviets are openly stealing western corporate communications cited case swiss oil trader recently put bids telex oil tanker pick cargo crude middle east responses swiss trader got was soviet national shipping company had n't been invited submit bid soviets eavesdropping paid however got contract