is now commonplace prosecutors are bringing criminal indictments cases few years only civil action most have been brought is also axiomatic power create new crimes belongs only legislature not courts beginning early 19th century u.s. hudson goodwin supreme court has repeatedly held judicial power declare conduct be public interest hence criminal well established british law usurp legislative authority doctrine separation powers 's conventional theory anyway practice however line interpretation redefinition criminal law long ago began blur particular common law white-collar crime has developed surprising rapidity past decade example insider trading has long been criminal has never been statutorily defined supreme court tried supply workable definition dirks sec decision found liability depended tipper had breached fiduciary duty corporation order obtain personal gain tippee knew recklessly disregarded fact gradually however lower courts prosecutors have pushed definition breaking point consider facts underlying conviction robert chestman prior tender offer a&p waldbaum inc. founder waldbaum supermarket chain called elderly relative tell assemble stock certificates delivery called daughter take bank turn persuaded husband mr. loeb run errand hearing information husband discussed broker mr. chestman mr. chestman then bought own account other clients basically mr. chestman was fourth-level tippee did mr. loeb tipper breach fiduciary duty so did mr. loeb seek personal gain so did mr. chestman only hear market rumor one lawfully trade line seems awfully thin criminal-law purposes second illustration is supplied recent guilty plea entered robert freeman formerly head arbitrage goldman sachs co essentially mr. freeman had invested heavily beatrice leveraged buy-out was told prominent trader bernard bunny lasker deal was trouble placing orders sell mr. freeman called martin siegel investment banker kidder peabody co. was advising deal confirm rumors mr. siegel asked mr. freeman source was hearing was bunny lasker responded bunny has good nose illegal tip bunny good nose was then largely confirmation rumors already known many market had case gone trial same issues have surfaced was there fiduciary breach order obtain personal gain did mr. freeman have notice finally was information material yet issues are subsidiary more central issue is be making criminal law here is not contention mr. chestman mr. freeman was innocent victim prosecutorial overzealousness arguably were notice behavior was least risky even behaved recklessly reasons still exist fear resist steady process case-by-case judicial extension law insider trading courts legislatures make decisions very different ways are susceptible very different kinds errors after-the-fact judicial examination actor conduct has always been common law method only civil liability is involved method has undeniable strengths factual specificity avoidance overgeneralization still case-by-case retrospective decision making sort is vulnerable tunnel vision caused fixation usually sleazy examples court decides particular actor conduct was culpable so extends definition insider trading reach conduct does not see potentially enormous number other cases be covered expanded rule thus court is poorly positioned make judgments social utility expanded rule example focusing mr. freeman attempt gain nonpublic information deal collapse one does not naturally think reverse side coin rumor had been false security analyst call investment banker make certain seemingly improbable rumor is fact false past not only reputable professionals have rushed check such rumors company companies listed major stock exchanges were encouraged exchanges respond openly such inquiries securities analysts today mr. freeman plea is uncertainty is unfair inefficient light comparative advantages legislative law-making become clear acts legislature typically hear views representatives affected decision not just immediate parties court legislature frame bright line standards create less uncertainty fact-bound decisions courts legislative lines result under-inclusion explains sec has long resisted legislative definition insider trading judicial lawmaking inevitably creates uncertainty shadowy outer edges implications most judicial decisions least stakes are high uncertainty turn results overinclusion individuals do not dare approach uncertain line closely federal mail wire fraud statutes provide even better illustrations rapid evolution federal common law white-collar crime supreme court attempted mcnally u.s. halt inexorable expansion statutes adopting rule strict construction ambiguous criminal statues yet late last year congress effectively reversed decision enacting one-sentence statute defined fraud include scheme deprive intangible right honest services stroke criminalize fiduciary breaches possibly misrepresentations agent employee statute illustrates fundamental problem congress finds is easier pass sweepingly moralistic prohibitions courts thereafter interpret engage difficult line-drawing distinctions are inherently responsibility are confronted less judicial power grab legislative giveaway predictably confronted morally dubious behavior prosecutors exploit latitude such openended statutes give long run however sleazy cases make bad law mr. coffee is professor columbia law school