proposed conflict-of-interest policy federally funded biomedical researchers thwart many high-technology new ventures say financiers researchers university administrators national institutes health policy require researchers cut financial ties health-care businesses lose government money other concerns agency says researchers business ties are more likely falsify findings order tout new drugs ties academia venture capital have blossomed recent years governmental fear abuse has risen guidelines make impossible commercialize research says kenneth smith associate provost vice president research massachusetts institute technology nih is asking grant recipients others comments proposed guidelines dec. make final decision policy guidelines foil future arrangements similar deal lithox inc. salem mass. start-up says robert daly managing partner ta associates venture-capital firm other investors launched lithox last year market gallstone cure being developed researchers university california san diego researchers are being financed lithox funds receive royalty percentage sales research yields commercial product university california many other universities shares royalties researchers disqualify federal funds proposed guidelines mr. daly says high-tech industry is full kind arrangement new guidelines affect instance commonwealth bioventures inc. venture-capital concern last month invested launch amira inc. worcester mass. concern produce pharmaceuticals scientists rima kaddurah-daouk paul schimmel conducted initial research massachusetts institute technology ms. kaddurah-daouk left mit head amira prof. schimmel continue work mit serve amira board own small equity stake company amira transaction is typical way venture-capital firms are approaching task commercializing biotechnology research universities develop basic research venture capitalists are ones best positioned finance commercialization says gloria w. doubleday commonwealth is best way transfer technology straight campuses universities new guidelines prevent scientists prof. schimmel being involved start-ups such amira venture capitalists point happens entire process transferring technology marketplace be harmed say stakes controversy are large last year venture capitalists spent estimated finance start-up companies medical biotechnology businesses according national venture capital association trade group many deals involved transactions scientific institutions researchers agreed commercialize work return equity stake royalties deals venture capitalists had inside track says lawrence bock avalon ventures la jolla calif investors were willing gamble new technologies had exclusive rights technologies adds proposed guidelines federally funded research have be reported publicly anyone capitalize work exclusivity most venture capitalists n't have incentive invest such deals mr. bock says last year example avalon others invested athena neurosciences inc. south san francisco calif. license develop technology delivery drugs brain athena was able get exclusive license technology federal register published most details giving company potential competitors chance exploit mr. bock says athena eventually acquired exclusive rights technology currently is developing says mr. bock was close call proposed guidelines also delay commercialization force small companies waste scarce capital entrepreneurs say start-ups n't have early access research being conducted institutions have replicate do research says ruth emyanitoff manager business development applied biotechnology inc. cambridge mass. concern duplicating research is costly time-consuming start-up ms. emyanitoff says part nih insists guidelines not stifle research creativity technology transfer research laboratory commercial use universities such harvard mit be able develop way act brokers individual scientists says katherine bick oversees huge nih grants program deputy director extramural research nih staff members believe guidelines are essential prevent escalation problems have already begun surface scientific ventures not long ago scientists holding stock spectra pharmaceutical services inc. were accused falsifying research boost stock many officials are also concerned companies getting free ride government-sponsored research congressional subcommitee has been investigating potential abuse researchers holding stock companies exploiting research other provisions nih guidelines prohibit researchers members immediate families holding stock company is affected outcome research ms. bick nih administrator says business scientific community is overreacting agency merely meant be ideas discussion predictions doom are premature says agencies nih circulate guidelines 've often already formulated policy veteran scientists say indeed institutions already are taking note sept. harvard began circulating conflict-of-interest policy statement effect follow nih guidelines faithfully university california san francisco is also circulating memo scientific faculty restrict contact world business many other institutions scientists are shunning contacts venture investors nih policy is settled says mr. daly venture capitalist does n't matter call guidelines policy damage is already done