legal controversies america have way assuming symbolic significance far exceeding is involved particular case speak volumes state society given moment has always been so young schoolteacher john t. scopes volunteered be guinea pig test case sponsored american civil liberties union challenge ban teaching evolution imposed tennessee legislature result was world-famous trial exposing profound cultural conflicts american life smart set spokesman was h.l. mencken religious fundamentalists mencken derided benighted primitives few now recall actual outcome scopes was convicted fined conviction was reversed appeal fine was excessive tennessee law was hiss case generation later alger hiss became lightning rod anxieties cold war conflicting attitudes new deal had served trials aroused public passions proportion rather banal secrets allegedly had passed soviet intelligence seems be case elizabeth morgan washington d.c. plastic surgeon jailed child custody case refusing reveal whereabouts daughter dr. morgan has just emerged d.c. jail more years confinement contempt court heroine many supporters rest case is puzzle is lawyers call fact intensive presents great issue legal principle overriding question family law law contempt instead turns disputed elusive facts did is difficult not impossible anyone has not pored thousands pages court pleadings transcripts have worthwhile opinion underlying merits controversy certainly do not look elsewhere explanation unusual power case has exerted minds many not just washington elsewhere country even world suggest themes have come together strange case dr. morgan first is represents intense battle james thurber used caricature war sexes thurber did so gently lightheartedly many dr. morgan supporters have taken thurber memorable title the male animal quite literally vehemence emotions aroused case testifies symbolic importance war thurber accepted eternal part human condition second theme is undercurrent social class race public reaction morgan case dr. morgan is highly educated white professional attended best schools members black caucus congress asked debate legislation freed dr. morgan does anyone seriously believe were uneducated black working-class woman congress have rushed pass private relief bill freeing president have hurried sign bill compassion plight ask questions is answer finally case dr. morgan gave congress opportunity act unaccustomed decisiveness engage favorite pastimes bashing district columbia government local government is discredited eyes many residents variety reasons congressmen read same newspapers watch same tv newscasts other people area do bashing d.c. government is risk-free members congress do not have answer own constituents congress is paralyzed acting such great issues day federal budget deficit yet bill tailored interests single individual passed congress almost unimaginable speed judicial process had run course indeed morgan case was awaiting ruling appellate court morgan case thus tells much more current state sex class race politics society does facts dr. morgan particular situation stand metaphor wide deep divisions society continue be however try deny existence mr. rezneck is lawyer washington d.c