move over pornographic phone services legal service number has been launched california newport beach law firm started pay-as-you-go legal service called telelawyer using mci communication corp. toll-tele-phone service cane associates touts 2-a-minute service cheapest legal hour ever find service is available only california telelawyer founder michael cane says plans franchise other states says aim is reach people are bedridden have access transportation n't find lawyer take case simply n't afford lawyers consultation fees mr. cane stresses is n't using telephone lure clients doorstep only deal clients phone says have in-office business telelawyer is apparently only telephone service offers telephone equivalent office visit local bar associations states have numbers provide free tape-recorded messages explaining certain areas law also are hotlines refer people lawyers usually personal-injury specialists in-office consultation caller reaches telelawyer dialing 900-telelaw receptionist refers call attorneys effort determine caller has reason sue cane lawyers review documents perform research necessary help law clerks several support staffers is charge research only time phone matter requires further legal work litigation mr. cane says lawyers refer client law firm says cane associates does n't receive referral fees so far says mr. cane most calls have involved landlord-tenant problems tax problems divorce probate questions firm is getting calls day average call lasts minutes charge law firm pockets jury convicts congressman connection wedtech corp. scandal federal court jury new york found u.s. rep. robert garcia d. n.y wife jane lee garcia guilty extorting wedtech return official acts congressman jury also convicted extortion obtaining interest-free loan wedtech officer jury found guilty conspiracy obtaining payments were disguised fees consulting services mrs. garcia wedtech became embroiled political-corruption cases eventually led demise formerly was minority-owned south bronx n.y. defense contractor edward j.m. little assistant u.s. attorneys prosecuted case said garcia trial is last wedtech prosecutions mr. little said more people have been convicted wedtech cases including former u.s. rep. mario biaggi d. n.y lawyers garcias said plan appeal mr. garcia represents new york 18th congressional district includes bronx said has n't decided resign next few weeks be consulting political advisers democratic leaders best way preserving interests constituents said mr. garcia years old mrs. garcia formerly was member mr. garcia congressional staff garcias were cleared other felony counts involving receipt bribes gratuities u.s. judge leonard b. sand set garcias sentencing jan. shea gould partners are leaving form new firm new firm hutton ingram yuzek gainen carroll bertolotti be based new york partners resigned shea gould late last week are tom hutton sam ingram dean yuzek daniel carroll ernest bertolotti be joined larry gainen resigned firm lepatner gainen block howard rubenstein new york publicist represents shea gould said shea gould understands 're leaving wanted different environment smaller firm be principals mr. rubenstein said were n't shea gould management committee are leaving good terms said shea gould held number discussions partners past few weeks get stay were firmly committed running own firm hutton ingram have general corporate securities real-estate litigation practice substantial practice serving professional-design community disciplinary proceedings lawyers open public illinois investigations lawyer misconduct remain secret public be notified once formal complaint is filed attorney actual disciplinary hearings be public addition illinois attorneys lose right sue clients file malicious complaints non-lawyers be added inquiry panels look allegations misconduct illinois joins other states allow public participation attorney-disciplinary proceedings states open disciplinary hearings public according american bar association vocal critic changes chicago lawyer warren lupel says non-lawyers n't be inquiry panels are unlikely appreciate nuances attorney-client relationships addition says publishing names lawyers are facing charges unnecessarily subjects public derogation nevertheless mr. lupel anticipates legal action reverse illinois supreme court decision institute changes 's constitutional right involved rule change says do n't have right practice only have privilege practice drexel burnham lambert inc. agreed pay fine delaware 26th state settle drexel wake firm guilty plea federal insider-trading charges drexel does n't have delaware office new york firm has been negotiating settlements allow operate freely nationwide record admitted felon firm has said expects pay overall settle states drexel pleaded guilty september felony counts securities mail fraud also made civil settlement securities exchange commission