heidi ehman have stepped recruiting poster young republicans white years old singer church choir symbolizes generation gave heart vote ronald reagan felt kind safe says no longer supreme court opened door year new restrictions abortion ms. ehman opened mind democratic politics then political novice stepped whirl pro-choice marches house parties fund-raisers now leads grassroots abortion-rights campaign passaic county pro-choice democratic gubernatorial candidate james florio is cross party lines says rejecting anti-abortion stance rep. florio opponent reagan-republican rep. james courter people age thought was n't going be issue now has especially people age polls bear warning decade increased republican influence here new politics abortion have contributed world turned upside down mr. courter closes gap republicans risk losing not only governorship also assembly month going gop is paying price same conservative social agenda used torment democrats past change comes less shift public opinion has n't changed much abortion past decade boundaries debate new jersey own highest court remains liberal bulwark major restrictions abortion u.s. supreme court ruling webster missouri has engaged voters nation had been insulated issue july pro-choice voters safely make political decisions focusing narrowly abortion now threat further restrictions adds new dimension bringing upsurge political activity abortion-rights forces recent pro-choice rally trenton drew thousands major reversal congress is defying presidential veto demanding medicaid abortions be permitted cases rape incest webster had n't happened n't be here linda bowker tells reporter trenton office national organization women have shouted rooftops courter have heard new jersey is proving ground aggressive women's-rights movement year infusion activists bring clash cultures cherry hill national abortion rights action league goal is sign pro-choice voters targets union breakfast build labor support cause league organizers seem more fit convention next door young aerobics instructors leotards beefy union leaders wish go work says slim activist labor chief speaks sardonically having man woman election day phones age group is more sensitive younger voters ms. ehman year ago fall new jersey voters favored george bush % % michael dukakis according survey then rutgers university eagleton institute matching eagleton-newark star ledger poll last month showed complete reversal voters same age group backed democrat florio % % republican courter abortion alone n't explain shift new jersey is model so personal issue become baseline sorts judging candidate 2-to-1 ratio voters appear more ease mr. florio stance abortion polls indicate lead widens candidates are specifically linked issue times are times says mr. florio camden county congressman still carries trademark i'm-coming-down-your-throat intensity pause newark columbus day parade recently was dancing wife middle avenue city old italian-american ward losing fewer votes governor race has prepared methodically moment including deciding recent years no longer support curbs federal funding medicaid abortions 're going be consistent say is constitutionally protected right asks are going say upscale woman drive hospital clinic nice car has constitutional right someone is not great shape financially does not mr. courter comparison seems shadow confident hawk defended oliver north national cameras iran-contra hearings years ago looking back says erred stating personal opposition abortion instead assuring voters n't impose views policy governor is distinction satisfies side debate does n't know kathy stanwick abortion rights league says mr. courter position even abortion opponents however angry mr. florio n't hide frustration republican ambivalence does n't want lead people says richard traynor president new jersey right life moreover stepping state pro-choice tradition mr. courter aggravates fears is too conservative well more pressing concerns such auto insurance rates environment hurt further summer bringing homosexual issues debate wavering issue abortion has weakened credibility is already mean-spirited campaign sides elected congress 48-year-old mr. courter is part generation young conservatives were once very much lead rightward shift mr. reagan many colleagues did n't serve vietnam embraced hawkish defense foreign policy even voting resolution critical u.s. mining nicaraguan harbors jack kemp writers irving kristol george gilder were influences mr. courter own conservative credentials proved useful current new jersey gop governor thomas kean republican primary here same partnership is now crucial mr. courter fortunes abortion issue is only reminder gap record more moderate pro-choice gov. kean warren county congressman pursued anti-government anti-tax agenda washington gov. kean was approving increased income sales taxes home overseeing near doubling size new jersey budget years office kean forces play differences mr. courter history makes harder conservative run government mr. courter free-market plan bring auto insurance rates met criticism gov. kean own insurance commissioner mr. courter is further hobbled record votes opposed government regulation behalf consumers fluent spanish days peace corps mr. courter actively courts minority voters seems oddly head is warm polished puerto rican congress asbury park yet minutes promising appoint hispanics high posts state government is unable say has ever employed congressional office do n't think do now says think did asked same question appearance democrat florio identifies staff member name explains whereabouts today is presented poster celebrating organization 20th anniversary recognizes photograph founders recalls time spent together camden details camden are essential florio elected congress watergate baby ran governor years later opinion many has n't stopped running even declined rematch gov. kean base south jersey house energy commerce committee helped sustain network political-action committees preserve edge limited budgets television high-priced market mr. florio higher recognition rival is major advantage more ever pro-consumer pro-environment record is sync state auto insurance rates are soaring toxic-waste-dump fire destroyed part interstate highway summer monmouth important swing area republican freeholders now run slogan promising keep county clean green mr. florio savors vindication age congressman is also product times losses speaks death penalty reading exodus increase state revenue focuses not taxes audits cut waste hard-hitting consultants match ads mr. courter team mr. florio retools lean mean democratic fighting machine appealing young audience scraps old reference ozzie harriet instead quotes grateful dead lyric chosen long strange night be apt footnote television spots candidates intended portray other liar democratic lawmaker fits pattern younger reformers arising old machines ties camden remain sore point county past corruption campaign hierarchy is chosen elsewhere state faced criticism sweetheart bank investment has so far blunted issue donating bulk profits alma mater trenton state college mr. florio forcefulness abortion issue webster ruling divides old constituency pasquale pignatelli unlikely enthusiastic pipe major essex county irish bagpipe band speaks sadly mr. florio am devout catholic says mr. pignatelli 40-year-old health officer n't support abortion bill wames sr. is catholic too unfazed mr. florio stand abortion security guard cargo terminal wears sons italy jacket cap celebrating us band still think woman has right do body pleases says want more opinions ask wife has lots opinions