michael maynard offered world faster way break eggs thanks egg industry tried break egg producers have done pretty good job tried put mr. maynard business act congress egg-industry lobbying helped persuade states ban mr. maynard automatic egg-breaking machine fears salmonella company misa manufacturing inc. was forced seek protection creditors federal bankruptcy law has since been liquidated monthly sales egg king machine now is marketing new company have sunk dozen peak says 46-year-old businessman mr. maynard is n't first entrepreneur bump entrenched interests case is notable scale fight is n't often congressional hearing is held determine small businessman is threat republic tells pitfalls marketing new product now ask people sell eggs fight someone is trying make easier crack part answer lies nature industry many larger egg producers are also egg processors crack inspect sanitize billions eggs turning powdered liquified frozen egg products however dozens bakers restaurant chefs other food preparers flocked mr. maynard defense say products ranging egg bread eclairs lose zip eggs come 30-pound cans instead shells companies use hundreds eggs day breaking hand get well hand idea egg king is pretty simple put eggs cylinder contains perforated baskets spin high speed break shells strain edible part baskets egg king just feet tall feet wide has been likened robot r2-d2 crack eggs hour fresh eggs are less expensive processed ones big egg user recover egg king cost few months says mr. maynard such centrifugal egg breakers have been 1890s mr. maynard came forward machine early 1970s nobody else was offering u.s main reason salmonella chickens carry bacteria cause upset stomachs rare cases death people hens sometimes pass salmonella eggs also be found unclean shells thus machine breaks large amounts eggs once has potential spread salmonella bad egg gets good ones mr. maynard claims is manageable problem egg king carries written instructions break only high-grade eggs have been properly sanitized added precaution use eggs only products be cooked enough kill bacteria nearly machines use have been salmonella problems as long instructions were followed mr. maynard boasts says handful salmonella cases involving products have used eggs broken egg king stemmed failure adequately cook products says 's no more reason banning egg kings bad drivers are reason banning cars opponents do n't buy such arguments human nature being is people do n't always follow instructions says jack guzewich chief food protection new york state health department leading assault egg king has been united egg producers decatur ga. trade group has issued briefing book claims machine is health hazard mr. maynard is trying make fast buck expense nation egg producers uep declines comment group attorney alfred frawley says group actions are motivated solely health concerns early battleground was u.s. department agriculture mr. maynard initially won approval machine be used egg-processing facilities regulated usda food safety inspection service unfortunately mr. maynard branch usda agricultural marketing service was charge eggs receiving complaints egg producers branch got other branch rescind approval thus limiting machine potential market bakeries restaurants other establishments are n't regulated usda egg producers also lobbied food drug administration fda letter united egg producers said was little likelihood health problem as long instructions were followed producers went capitol hill congressman georgia introduced measure ban centrifugal egg-breaking machines mr. maynard company time was based santa ana calif. enlisted local congressman battle was joined mr. maynard forces finally defeated measure took vote floor house representatives do even then opponents managed get congressional hearing examine congressman called unscrupulous method breaking eggs foiled effort get national ban egg producers turned attention states so far new york new jersey nebraska georgia michigan minnesota have outlawed mr. maynard device citing health concerns antitrust suit mr. maynard company filed los angeles federal court united egg producers others only added entrepreneur woes judge dismissed suit ordered mr. maynard company pay legal fees defendants lawyers mr. maynard says ruling pushed company bankruptcy court now has moved oklahoma costs are lower started new company adsi inc. market machine so far change scenery has n't ended string bad breaks mr. maynard recently fell horse fractured arm