take wallet 's much collapse lincoln savings loan cost other american liquidating irvine calif. thrift drain federal deposit insurance fund more making largest thrift failure history now finally be investigation explore senatorial shills helped perpetuate fiscal black hole back june recounted u.s. senators alan cranston california dennis deconcini john mccain arizona john glenn ohio donald riegle michigan intervened regulators ease lincoln risk-fraught loans were more worthy casino federally insured thrift last friday common cause political-reform lobby asked senate ethics committee probe senators wants outside counsel conduct probe parallel justice department investigation things has not initially asked previous ethics cases perhaps common cause has come recognize congress is generally incapable investigating charles keating jr. chairman american continental lincoln parent company needed senators help running battle federal regulators admits made large contributions take cause case keating executives gave senator riegle same march fund-raiser mr. riegle later returned money april senators absent mr. riegle asked meet ed gray then head federal home loan bank board according mr. gray unsuccessfully pressed drop key regulation detrimental lincoln clear subversion regulatory process senator mccain now calls meeting improper several previous denials senator cranston now admits regulation probably came days later senators joined mr. riegle met other regulators press lincoln case senators glenn riegle mccain apparently stopped doing favors mr. keating senators cranston deconcini persisted intervening behalf lincoln just closure year now turns least senators have been indebted mr. keating far mere campaign contributions arizona republic reports senator deconcini top aides received more real-estate loans lincoln senator mccain recently reimbursed mr. keating previously unreported airplane trips revealed wife father-in-law invested keating shopping-center partnership senator cranston solicited contributions mr. keating nonpartisan voter-registration groups former employees now say were fronts democratic party senator glenn solicited contributions mr. keating political committee controlled paid travel country was used glenn senate campaign possible violation federal election law lack attention keating drama is astonishing light magnitude savings-and-loan disaster s&l bailout promises cost taxpayers lincoln accounting alone contrast extensively covered hud political scandals cost taxpayers centerpiece being check james watt legality seems be uncontested similarly spate dubious prosecutions finance obscures seriousness allegations mr. keating associates is not matter whispering bunny 160-page civil suit filed mr. keating last month resolution trust corp. vehicle s&l bailout traces clear thread money was taken lincoln example selling uninsured debentures retirement communities allegedly taken parent company insiders example sale personal stock company employee stock ownership plan case remains be tested court course allegations hold senators were defending classic scam common cause is n't only body thinks keating interventions deserve scrutiny house banking committee has voted subpoena mr. keating top federal regulators testify lincoln hearings begin tomorrow focus thrift regulator m. danny wall former senate staffer overruled staff recommendations close lincoln transferred regulatory oversight lincoln washington april senators intervened april lincoln was finally closed losses taxpayers grew was common cause demand last year house ethics committee probe speaker jim wright prompted committee hire richard phelan outside counsel mr. phelan found mr. wright had improperly intervened federal regulators behalf s&ls ethics committee disagreed saying such actions were integral part member job not second-guess technique personality legislator senate ethics committee chooses investigate be interesting see reaches same conclusion case senators