imaginative novelist writing thriller amateur spy-chasing invent clifford stoll 's unlikely 's also unnecessary amateur spy-chaser clifford stoll is real person waggishly put surreal person is astronomer impressive credentials something genius making computers do bidding once described berkeley hippie played role well obligatory ragged jeans thicket long hair rejection things conventional including time least formal marriage sweetheart martha matthews also is entertaining writer combining wisecracks wordplay programmatic detail lucid explanations computers work cuckoo egg doubleday pages spins remarkable tale efforts months catch computer spy result last spring was arrest west german authorities young west germans accused stealing information computers u.s. europe selling soviet kgb 25-year-old markus hess hannover allegedly used international telecommunications network break more high-security computers u.s. searching secrets probably did n't penetrate top-secret files kgb east berlin was willing pay associates peter carl dirk brezinski material hess collected promised yet more really good stuff mr. stoll draws title cuckoo habit laying eggs nests other birds making surrogate parents computer spy had discovered popular mail program called gnu-emacs do tricks widely used unix operating system created at&t using gnu-emacs spy substitute bogus atrun program one routinely cleans unix system minutes once cuckoo egg was laid enter unix become super-user access everything mr. stoll was scanning heavens keck observatory lawrence berkeley laboratory grant ran low was asked switch helping run lab computers discovered 75-cent discrepancy charges made various departments computer time traced user named hunter had valid billing address mr. stoll suspected intruder was precocious students has fun breaking computers much tracking became evident mr. stoll various clues hacker was not berkeley campus even california finding became obsession mr. stoll made midnight requisition printers lay hands on monitor telephone lines coming lab computers discovering hacker had taken dormant account legitimate user named joe sventek rigged alarm system including portable beeper alert sventek came line nights slept desk boss complained neglect other chores hacker was pawing berkeley files also using berkeley other easily accessible computers stepping stones network computers used military national security agencies white sands missile range cia contractor mitre inc. were targets hacker moved mr. stoll moved too calling other systems managers alert keeping own system open avoid arousing suspicion sometimes hacker seemed be sensitive file drag keychain terminal create static slow system frustrate quarry fbi initially showed little interest had impression other federal security agencies were tangled up legal red tape cia told does not do domestic counterespionage learns lot book seems crippling federal bureaucracy seems 's possible cia national security agency were more interested let on mr. stoll finally got help tymnet is major network linking computers international specialists steve white took quick interest mr. stoll hunt ultimately tracing hacker west germany west germans then took over finally found markus hess eventually mr. stoll was invited cia nsa brief high-ranking officers computer theft savored humor uncombed appearance buttoned-up chaps back berkeley was violently scolded left-wing lady friend consorting such people became angry return had developed hatred hacker grudging appreciation federal spooks make national security business several different levels 's fascinating tale mr. melloan is deputy editor journal