garry kasparov went combat sunday world most advanced chess computer kicked symbolically anyway old tin can playing black first game human champion maneuvered deep thought known attacking prowess totally passive position then unleashed own unstoppable attack second game mr. kasparov advancing ferociously white d.t. offered feeble resistance lost even faster mankind rest easier now almost everybody playing site had been looking 26-year-old soviet beat pennsylvania-based computer gave machine far worse drubbing many expected mr. kasparov strode playing hall called outcome were iron mike enter ring 98-pound weakling declared be able beat computer next years strategy d.t. was based thorough study dozens games said including notorious whippings grandmasters bent larsen denmark robert byrne u.s mr. kasparov was underwhelmed computer mind is too straight too primitive lacking intuition creativity needed reach top said champion apparently was not worried d.t. strong points chief builder taiwan-born feng-hsiung hsu nicknamed brainchild weasel tactical flair wriggling horrible positions d.t. also has prodigious flawless memory is utterly fearless n't be distracted sexy nude sculptures spread playing hall new york academy art fact d.t. never left home carnegie mellon university pittsburgh communicated human handlers telephone link conceded odds favored mr. kasparov put hope d.t. recently enhanced capacity examining positions second handlers mistakenly stuck silicon chips needed kryptonite became apparent game sicilian defense mr. kasparov proceeded human examine millions moves mr. kasparov using ineffably powerful brain consistently found very good ones moves side board was same game nigel short great britain fought champion draw computer did n't play mr. short ninth move key pawn thrust position deteriorated rapidly instead castling standard measure safeguard king d.t. made second-rate rook maneuver move then put knight offside move only classes minds think very weak human players computers said edmar mednis expert commentator match was attended hundreds chess fans move d.t. had fallen deep positional trap allowed mr. kasparov exchange dark-squared bishop d.t. knights bishops usually are worth slightly more knights case mr. kasparov was left very dangerous knight d.t. surviving bishop was reduced passivity indeed looked more pawn tall pawn spectators snidely put consistently d.t. was over-optimistic chances continually sized numerical form most spectators thought position hopeless computer thought was only effect one-half pawn such evaluations met derision kept machine resigning as soon humans have prompting more derision d.t. shuffled king back forth defensive crouch mr. kasparov maneuvered knight dominant outpost also launched kingside storm sacrificing pawn denude d.t. king amount weasling have saved game d.t piece computer resigned now crowd analysis room smelling figurative blood only question seemed be fast mr. kasparov win game advantage playing white moves first mr. kasparov followed cleverly computer defense queen gambit accepted as early move mr. kasparov deviated well-known sequence moves developing knight instead making standard bishop attack computer advanced knight left computer broader range plausible replies immediately blundered moving queenside pawn neglect kingside development new position just opening computer have serious problems mr. kasparov said later such positions explained have create something new computer is n't able do right now only moves side computer position was shaky greedily grabbed pawn cost facing brutal attack defensive move was called d.t. passed obvious pawn move instead exposed queen immediate tactical threats mr. kasparov remarked later even weak club player have avoided queen move now only dozen moves spectators were looking mating combination demonstration board emcee shelby lyman showed quick kill initiated knight sacrifice spectator refuted line play mr. kasparov continuation was slower end just deadly won d.t. queen minor pieces pawns not enough compensation position give computer much hope hopeless position computer resigned rather make 37th move mr. kasparov cheers applause marched back analysis room games got exactly wanted said had demonstrated added is 's more chess sheer calculation undeterred d.t. handlers vowed press indeed be building successor machine international business machines corp promises feng-hsiung hsu years mount better challenge mr. tannenbaum is reporter journal new york bureau