involvement units major u.s. banks separate loans china has signaled growing willingness foreign bankers resume lending beijing government units bt asia ltd. subsidiary bankers trust new york corp. week arranged syndication five-year loan shortridge ltd. is owned china international trust investment corp holdings citic loan be used shortridge share purchase satellite bt asia director said other unit chase manhattan asia ltd. hong kong subsidiary chase manhattan corp. new york said is underwriting loan china biggest trading company china resources holdings co. general corporate purposes total be swapped marks international outcry following shooting students bystanders beijing june foreign-bank lending china came halt bankers hong kong said week citic loan was important sign foreign banks are interested resuming regular business china 's sort benchmark said u.s. banker did n't participate loan russell l. magarity senior managing director chase manhattan asia said is time start considering loans china again mr. magarity said chase hopes assemble international group banks lending syndicate including u.s. japanese banks china resources has had strong relationship recent years right now think successfully syndicate loan china resources name said indeed reputations china resources citic played significant role decisions china resources citic are considered exceptionally good credit risks bankers said other loans china have be considered case-by-case basis political considerations banks are concerned state china economy borrowers ability make loan payments now first major syndication chinese loan has proceeded smoothly japanese banker said be easier foreign banks consider making loans china citic acts sort merchant bank overseas acquisitions china is relatively independent company shortridge is partners asia satellite telecommunications co. plans launch private satellite chinese rocket next year other partners are cable wireless plc britain hutchison whampoa ltd. hong kong citic guaranteed loan loan was syndicated group foreign banks europe hong kong canada foreign bankers said did n't identify institutions bt asia arranged syndication did n't underwrite loan bt asia official n't disclose terms loan said was linked currency option allows banks receive repayment yen instead dollars official said citic pay interest rate be percentage point higher amount citic have paid similar borrowing june said was difficult calculate exact interest rate currency option bankers said believe china resources loan costs have risen same amount