're sorry see nigel lawson departure british government is politician courage true conviction summarily sacking exchange controls particular slashing top rate income taxation % end resignation chancellor exchequer be good thing especially works doubt intends forcing prime minister thatcher counterparts elsewhere confront genuine intellectual issues involved early omens admit scarcely suggest so wholesome outcome fleet street reaction was captured guardian headline departure reveals thatcher poison british politicians divide groups chickens necks cut screaming sky is falling so far see only persons are behaving dignity recognizing seriousness issues mr. lawson sir alan walters counterpoint chancellor difficulties also resigned personal adviser mrs. thatcher problem is vital issue monetary policy exchange rates conservative free-market economists divide least incompatible camps are strict monetarists believe floating exchange rates free economy stabilize price level stabilizing monetary aggregates are supply-side globalists seek spread advantages common currency fixed exchange rates are twin-deficit keynesians devaluations balance trade flows is problem not only prime minister thatcher president bush shown ongoing bickering dollar federal reserve mulford treasury british case mr. lawson is closest thing london supply-side globalist not only slashed marginal tax rates initially sparking fresh growth britain wanted regulate monetary policy targeting exchange rates indeed joining european monetary system doubt agreeing mr. lawson everything else sir alan is dyed-in-the-wool monetarist inclined defend floating rates death make matters even more confusing earlier u.s. experience made clear mr. lawson tax cuts have profound effects britain international accounts value sterling increased after-tax rate return made britain far more attractive place invest producing sudden capital inflows accounting definitions had produce sudden trade deficit u.s. also produced sudden burst demand sterling is surge sterling monetary aggregates m-whatever point options were crunch money stop boost aggregates sir alan surely advised forget soaring pound push pound even lower trying cure trade deficit policy britain has repeatedly proved disastrous supply enough money meet increased demand stabilize exchange rate chancellor argued ensure permanence policy joining ems faced similar situation paul volcker let dollar soar monetary aggregates also grew so rapidly monetarists issued egg-on-the-face warnings inflation devastated u.s. manufacturing sector laying seeds protectionism mr. lawson not allowed join ems chose shadow deutsche mark reaped inflation rapid growth doubt validating sir alan predictions prime minister mind more recently pound has been falling high inflation has also seemed almost impervious high interest rates mr. lawson deployed stop british experience presents genuine puzzle reaches far shores albion had been soliciting opinions long mr. lawson resignation offer collection benefit successor one-time deputy john major begin note contrast u.s. deficit britain has been running largish budget surpluses pursuit mystery keynesian adepts twin-deficit mavens not apply also add mr. lawson own explanation understand u.s. britain never achieved even momentary reduction real wages wage stickiness oecd studies confirm is particularly high britain gives economy structural bias inflation inflation is easier spark harder control also concede british experience monetarist cause regains credibility lost u.s. experience nearby paul craig roberts distinguished supply-sider monetarist sympathies argues case sir alan perhaps fiscal shock tax cuts is best absorbed floating rates course event mr. lawson resigned support weak pound not restrain strong recall mr. roberts not only chides chancellor being too easy desire constrain sterling also led chorus saying mr. volcker was too tight let dollar rise somewhere be golden mean perhaps measured m-whatever perhaps measured purchasing power parity globalists tend think mr. lawson ran technical reefs fixing rates choice initial parities is crucial example perhaps picked wrong pound-dm rate matter perhaps fixed wrong currency sympathize mrs. thatcher reluctance tie currency governed domestic political imperatives west germany perhaps shock have been less 'd fixed low-tax deregulated supply-side economy alan reynolds polyconomics adds suspicion unrecognized inflationary culprit is budget surplus shake keynesian ghosts heads recognize retirement gilts cash is equivalent expansionary open-market operation indeed is definition open market operation expand money supply mr. reynolds also notes british banks have reserve requirements high interest rates are less likely curb inflation cause recession add political terms mrs. thatcher problem was failing decide chancellor adviser end policy was followed instead learning anything are left mystery particular shadowing currency is anything fixing is open announcement exchange rate target has credibility more so strong voices are heard opposing policy better have true monetarist policy just experience mr. lawson had resign end move was sparked remarks excerpts sir alan autobiography american economist 10,000-circulation academic journal was underlying situation became intolerable mr. major mrs. thatcher do now remains be seen confront stubborn inflation sagging economy is say stagflation not be solved provoking further downturn reducing supply goods does not solve inflation advice is immediately return government surpluses economy incentive-maximizing tax cuts find monetary policy target balances supply demand money aggregates interest rates do was version supply-side economics late early worked america world-wide solve far more serious stagflation afflicts britain today