whittle communications l.p. months has fought public relations battle education leaders said has signed schools states subscribe controversial channel news program sister programs channel satellite-delivered daily program supported advertising is scheduled be launched march whittle said field staff signed schools school districts only weeks company executives now expect reach start-up goal schools end year christopher whittle chairman knoxville tenn. media company is % owned time warner inc. said december expects have channel installed about schools potential audience installation tv system includes providing free 19-inch tv sets classrooms begins january 've done weeks shows n't have enormous difficulties getting place want be said mr. whittle said sales force is signing schools rate day california new york state officials have opposed channel mr. whittle said private parochial schools states be canvassed see are interested getting programs subscribing schools get 12-minute daily channel news program 30-second tv ads show have drawn protests educators subscribers also get classroom channel feature ad-free educational programming similar public-tv shows educator channel offer instructional programming teachers school administrators be supported advertising whittle has met resistance educational network mr. whittle has named programs has been offered school districts whittle continues negotiate districts about % school districts approached have rejected network mr. whittle said so far schools carried program five-week test last spring have subscribed program test schools withrow high school cincinnati rejected project john bruner associate director communications cincinnati public schools said channel one was rejected students watching program did n't fare particularly better 28-question current events quiz control school program school absences were almost unchanged period program was being aired number correct responses was % test school absences did n't change much said mr. bruner pilot program was received well teachers students there was n't reason enough sign even invited public stop see program there was n't much interest advertisers are showing interest last month whittle announced had sold advertising time network national advertisers mr. whittle friday said several more advertisers have been added whittle is spending initially launch network installation satellite dishes tvs videocassette equipment cost company about school mr. whittle said