good grief charlie brown is selling metropolitan life ads were bad enough now charlie brown is about start pitching everything chex party mix light bulbs is cashing now turns next year charlie brown snoopy gang turn scripps howard united media unit syndicator licensing agent charles schulz comic strip sees bonanza licensing cartoon characters bevy advertisers ads tie-ins promotions peanuts has become major part american culture says peter shore united media vice president marketing licensing comic strip has magical everlasting quality plan is honor charles schulz strip year long effort make peanuts gang very familiar pitchmen general electric plans use characters plug miser light bulb teleflora run tv ads valentine day promoting snoopy love bouquet ralston purina promote chex party mix new flavor packets named charlie brown lucy linus characters also be featured new public service effort united way advertisements syndicator is planning traveling arena show new tv specials cbs even exhibit smithsonian institute yearlong schedule festivities be kicked officially combination live animation half-time special super bowl january tie-ins though have marketing experts questioning party go too far are too many people participating says al ries trout ries greenwich conn. marketing consulting firm want cut clutter have make message distinct sharp individual possible sharing character other advertisers is n't way do united media says 's very scrupulous contracts hands 're not interested promoting single product comes along mr. shore says metropolitan life ad executives n't be reached use peanuts characters others mr. shore says company exclusive advertising rights extend only insurance financial services category berry rejoins wpp group norman berry creative executive was apparently squeezed ogilvy mather june is returning ogilvy parent company wpp group plc mr. berry had resigned being asked ogilvy chairman chief executive officer kenneth roman give title creative head new york office take fuzzier international role yesterday just day mr. roman announced leave take top post american express wpp said mr. berry return take international role parent company mr. berry said timing was coincidence decision was unrelated mr. roman departure rjr taps rjr nabisco inc. awarded national broadcast media-buying assignment katz partners new york outpost chicago-based foote cone belding naming katz partners agency record nabisco brands inc. planters lifesavers co. follows rjr nabisco announcement last week disband rjr nabisco broadcast division dismiss employees dec. cut costs new york-based rjr nabisco n't say spends annually industry executives say spend more year about last year ad notes earnings interpublic group cos. said third-quarter net rose % cents share cents share year-earlier period revenue increased more % holiday promotion pepsico inc. give sets game boy nintendo new hand-held video game two-month promotion scheduled begin nov. pepsi said spend advertising promotion