digital equipment corp. is planning big coming-out party tuesday first line mainframe computers uninvited guest is expected try crash party morning long-planned announcement international business machines corp. is introduce own new mainframe attitude is want talk mainframes talk mainframes says computer industry executive 're deliberately trying steal thunder digital executive complains maybe take compliment digital target is market mainframe computers closet-sized number-crunchers nearly big company needs run business ibm based armonk n.y. has dominated market decades does n't scare digital has grown be world second-largest computer maker poaching customers ibm mid-range machines digital based maynard mass. hopes stage repeat performance mainframes has spent almost developing new technology spoiler nimble tandem computers inc. cupertino calif. jumped fray earlier week aggressively priced entry ibm appears more worried digital has broad base customers waiting new line dubbed vax 's going be nuclear war says thomas willmott consultant aberdeen group inc surge competition is expected stir new life huge mainframe market growth has slowed single digits recent years ibm traditional mainframe rivals including unisys corp. control data corp. ncr corp. have struggled recently digital is promising new approach robert m. glorioso digital vice president high performance systems says digital mainframe is designed not central computer everything revolves part decentralized network weaving together hundreds workstations personal computers printers other devices ibm water-cooled mainframes does n't need plumbing challengers have big price advantage digital is expected tag new line up depending configuration 's half price comparably equipped ibm mainframes tandem pricing is just as aggressive heightened competition hit ibm difficult time computer giant current mainframe line has sold well has huge profit margins is starting show age new 3090s due next week boost performance only % % ibm is n't expected deliver new generation mainframes still one expects ibm rivals deliver knockout ibm has near-monopoly mainframes estimated % share market ibm is times size digital times size tandem wields enormous market power counts customers majority world largest corporations entrust most critical business information ibm computers 're not going walk in replace company corporate accounting system 's already running ibm mainframe concedes kenneth h. olsen digital president says digital target faster-growing market segments such on-line transaction processing includes retail-sales tracking airline reservations bank-teller networks tandem already specializes on-line transaction processing is potent competitor market key marketing target digital be large number big customers already own digital ibm systems such company is bankers trust co stanley rose vice president technological strategic planning bankers trust says digital low prices are n't unplug ibm mainframes dec machine software conversion costs dwarf savings mr. rose is still looking seriously bankers trust uses digital vax run huge money-transfer capital markets accounts juggling hundreds billions dollars day says system grows larger computers be needed past customers had go ibm outgrew vax now do n't have says 's going cost ibm revenue analysts say digital expect pent-up demand new vax fuel strong sales year barry f. willman analyst sanford c. bernstein co. estimates boost sales more fiscal year beginning july bases estimate survey hundreds digital largest customers digital announce full family mainframes week is n't expected begin shipping volume next year first model available be is likely appeal many technical scientific buyers interested optional super-charger vector processor says terry shannon international data corp. market research concern more models aimed squarely ibm commercial customers are expected begin shipping late june most analysts do n't expect new mainframes begin contributing significantly revenue fiscal first quarter begins next july digital new line has been long time coming company has long struggled deliver strong mainframe-class product made costly decision halt development interim product meant stem revenue losses high end digital failure deliver true mainframe-class machine now have cost company as much revenue fiscal mr. willman says ibm face still more competition coming months amdahl corp. backed japan fujitsu ltd. has growing share market low-priced ibm-compatible machines national advanced systems joint venture japan hitachi ltd. general motors corp. electronic data systems is expected unveil line powerful ibm-compatible mainframes later year note nas is national advanced systems cdc control data corp. bull nh information systems inc source international data corp compiled publishers weekly data large-city bookstores bookstore chains local bestseller lists u.s copyright reed publishing usa