workday a.m. 40-year-old mike sinyard dons cycling clothes hops bike keeps morgan hill calif. office sets cover distance most people travel only car as many employees specialized bicycle components inc. ride return desks p.m. have pedaled miles such fervor cycling helped mr. sinyard build creative company forefront industry founded bike enthusiasts rather businessmen specialized spotted appeal fat-tired bikes go almost anywhere began mass-producing past years company sales have grown today so-called mountain bikes account two-thirds spent annually bicycles u.s % sales coming mountain bikes specialized is widely considered be market leader accessories largely mountain-bike users account much rest sales today company needs entrepreneurial spirit more ever large competitor is leaping booming market specialized helped create turning mountain bikes such well-known names schwinn peugeot raleigh nishiki thus mr. sinyard company innovate more ever stay ahead developing new products specifically mountain biking same time though become more structured better manage growth accomplishing be balancing act as challenging riding unicycle is problem common small companies have grown fast especially success attracts big-time competitors big word specialized is passion says erik eidsmo former ski-industry executive mr. sinyard recruited citicorp run marketing sales hope bring is word process challenge 's mike challenge as well mr. eidsmo is several key people cycling industry were hired bring free-wheeling fast-growing company tighter control had lot problems mr. sinyard says company sales were soaring still had system was probably appropriate sales adds mr. eidsmo felt good day was done day arrival may mr. eidsmo has put place techniques learned working citicorp such management-by-objective detailed project plans forecasts company sales product trends 're finally getting 's been very painful understanding company long-term horizon begin look mr. eidsmo says 's risky says specialized attempt adopt corporate structure do n't want lose magic company creative drive hoping stay ahead pack company is emphasizing innovation recent trade show convention-goers lined view new specialized bike frame weighs just pounds pound less lightest mountain-bike frame market replacing frame steel lugs titanium ones mr. sinyard company plans make next generation frames even lighter trade show specialized also unveiled revolutionary three-spoked bike wheel developed jointly specialized du pont co made space-age materials wheel spokes are designed airplane wings shave minutes time rider 100-mile race company claims currently costs mr. sinyard thinks price be reduced years was able slash price company least expensive mountain bike demands company creativity are certain grow competition is intensifying as larger companies invade mountain-bike market mr. sinyard company once had virtually all u.s. cycling federation official philip milburn says mountain biking is growing monstrous rate lot companies are getting one especially coveted specialized market new players are targeting is mountain-bike accessories mr. eidsmo calls future business accessories not only sell faster whole bikes also offer profit margins nearly double % % so sales complete cycles get piece business nike inc. beaverton ore. introduced line mountain-bike shoes about month ago michelin tire corp. greenville s.c. began selling mountain-bike tires years specialized stronghold competition sale complete bikes is heating too trek bicycle corp. accounts one-quarter annual sales milwaukee-based parent intrepid corp. entered mountain-bike business trek previously made only traditional road bikes did n't take rocket scientist change road bike mountain bike says trek president dick burke segment now makes roughly two-thirds company total sales giant bicycle inc. rancho dominguez calif. sales have tripled company entered u.s. mountain-bike business subsidiary taiwanese holding company world-wide sales giant is example sudden globalization mr. sinyard once-cozy market niche schwinn bicycle co. chicago established joint ventures bike companies mainland china hungary sell bikes past year derby international corp. luxembourg has acquired such major brands peugeot raleigh nishiki response internationalization business mr. sinyard company is replacing independent distributors overseas wholly owned subsidiaries move cut cost middleman give specialized more control marketing sales bill austin giant president puts bigger players consolidating strength game has changed