big three u.s. auto makers posted losses core north american automotive businesses third quarter expectations continued slow vehicle sales price wars are casting pall fourth period strongest sign big woes came ford motor co. said had loss u.s. automotive business first time ford predicted fourth-quarter net income fall year-earlier level partly likely charge sale steel operations bleak automotive results were offset strong earnings non-automotive operations still combined profit ford chrysler corp. general motors corp. fell % year earlier excluding one-time gain chrysler sale mitsubishi motors corp. stock last time companies reported north american automotive losses was recession year yesterday announcements helped spark midday wave program selling stock market gm common closed share cents ford fell cents end chrysler eased cents new york stock exchange composite trading market pessimism reflects gloomy outlook detroit japanese auto makers gained market share big gm lead slashed north american production launched retail discounting blitz price war peaked third quarter big three factory discounts climbed more vehicle according industry officials gm probably had heaviest incentives said robert s. miller chrysler chief financial officer did had do stay sight costly efforts did little slow japanese market gains domestic car sales have plunged % big three ended many programs sept. gm ford chrysler have already cut fourth-quarter u.s. output plans estimated % levels sales do n't pick cuts go deeper incentives sprout again ford has long boasted ability weather downturn saw earnings take beating no. auto maker blamed incentive costs reduced production result substantially weaker u.s. market % drop net share revenue nearly decline came ford u.s. automotive operations dearborn mich. auto maker ran loss assembling marketing cars u.s. deterioration line quarter ford managed show profit quarter primarily earnings overseas auto operations financial services year earlier ford reported record net share revenue latest months ford earned share compared share u.s. automotive loss was sharp reversal company had reeled consecutive quarters improved earnings second quarter david n. mccammon vice president finance insisted cost-cutting tight production capacity make results better downturn prior downturns ford had net losses still mr. mccammon said ford expects u.s. economy weaken end causing weaker sales production result fourth-quarter profit come results drop n't be as sharp % third-quarter decline said part drop come anticipated charge as much proposed sale rouge steel unit fourth quarter ford had net share chrysler operating profit fell scant cents share lowest quarterly total years share gain sale mitsubishi shares made net share sales were flat results include record quarterly earnings chrysler financial corp year earlier chrysler net was cents share mr. miller said costs incentives caused moderate loss highland park mich. company north american car truck business said loss was n't that much different ford loss u.s. automotive operations declined be specific mr. miller said chrysler spent average vehicle incentive programs third quarter compared about vehicle year earlier high-water mark time said chrysler is longer sure forecast industry car truck sales model year consumers said are balking higher prices cars especially seeing incentive-reduced prices models months net was share including gain mitsubishi stock sale compared share charge cents share plant closings period sales rose % heavy losses north american auto operations sent gm net tumbling record detroit-based gm does n't issue separate quarterly earnings north american automotive business analysts estimated gm had loss as much domestic vehicle operations % drop north american factory sales cars trucks cut revenue rebates dealers customers more offset gains price increases model vehicles delivered period gm spokesman said gm results also illustrate increasing diversity operations breakdown gm attributed half net big technology units electronic data systems corp. gm hughes electronics corp meanwhile gm said overseas auto operations are track exceed last year record full-year net diversified operations helped gm build cash reserves exclusive financial subsidiary sept. % increase year earlier cushion come handy gm has trim fourth-quarter north american production schedules more already scheduled % circumstances n't be easy gm exceed record fourth-quarter net spokesman acknowledged means 's unlikely company surpass last year full-year profit even net first months was up % revenue earned revenue months slides represents income after-tax gain sale stock