japan has found safe outlet money u.s. home mortgages increasing number big japanese investors are buying u.s. home mortgages have been pooled packaged sale interest-bearing instruments known mortgage-backed securities as much % new u.s. mortgage securities issued federal national mortgage association fannie mae federal home loan mortgage corp. freddie mac now flow japanese hands not come surprise americans have watched japanese snap properties u.s. golf courses stake rockefeller center marks big change japanese shunned mortgage securities getting burned big downturn interest rates few years back n't say 's tsunami tidal wave 're making headway says fannie mae chairman david o. maxwell visits tokyo least once year explain drum investor interest mortgage securities interest is great deal higher was year ago steady growth mortgage securities market u.s. has even triggered talk building similar market here evidence growing japanese demand mortgage securities abounds earlier year blackstone group new york investment bank had trouble selling special mortgage-securities trust created japanese investors industrial bank japan claims be biggest japanese buyer u.s. mortgage securities says more double purchases year amount official puts several dollars fannie mae seminar week promises draw hundreds prospective investors be expected channel tens billions dollars market next few years last year were only several big investors were interested says kinji kato vice president international arm nomura securities co year investors are changing policies investing lot ultimately says strong demand help drive interest rates mortgage securities moment nomura is only japanese institution authorized act primary seller fannie mae instruments other japanese institutions say privately are considering asking join 59-dealer selling group securities are attractive japanese investors reasons are safe are n't backed full faith credit u.s. government treasury bonds are is widely assumed government support necessary u.s. treasury bonds are still dollar-denominated investment choice long-term japanese investors are liquid secondary market federally backed mortgage securities now exceeds nearly half u.s. residential mortgages issued offer high yields moment offer as much percentage points treasury securities similar maturities is risk japanese discovered first dipped toes market nearly years ago most mortgages be prepaid refinanced time issuers mortgage securities retain right buy back bonds maturity 's headache long-term investors forces reinvest money usually lower rates original mortgage securities carried years ago problem was people did n't understand prepayment risk says nomura mr. kato so were surprised very disappointed prepayment compounding trouble japanese investors mortgage securities pay interest monthly most mortgages require homeowners make monthly payments japanese institutional investors are used quarterly semiannual payments investments monthly cash flow posed administrative problems result japanese investors steered clear mortgage securities did n't lose touch u.s. issuers japanese investors have bought nearly % fannie mae corporate debt issued foreigners money fannie mae uses buy mortgages u.s. banks japanese investors took up nearly real estate mortgage investment conduits kind collateralized mortgage obligation were offered foreigners year addition further packaging mortgage-backed securities such blackstone fund have reduced effects prepayment risk automatically reinvest monthly payments institutions do n't have freddie mac years has offered so-called participation certificate guarantees n't be prepaid set number years offers semiannual payments