u.s. claiming success trade diplomacy removed south korea taiwan saudi arabia list countries is closely watching allegedly failing honor u.s. patents copyrights other intellectual-property rights however other countries china thailand india brazil mexico remain so-called priority watch list result interim review u.s. trade representative carla hills announced new u.s. trade law countries face accelerated unfair-trade investigations stiff trade sanctions do n't improve protection intellectual property next spring mrs. hills said many countries placed varying degrees scrutiny have made genuine progress touchy issue said is growing realization world denial intellectual-property rights harms trading nations particularly creativity inventiveness offending country own citizens u.s. trade negotiators argue countries inadequate protections intellectual-property rights be hurting discouraging own scientists authors deterring u.s. high-technology firms investing marketing best products there mrs. hills lauded south korea creating intellectual-property task force special enforcement teams police officers prosecutors trained pursue movie book pirates seoul also has instituted effective search-and-seizure procedures aid teams said taiwan has improved standing u.s. initialing bilateral copyright agreement amending trademark law introducing legislation protect foreign movie producers unauthorized showings films measure compel taipei growing number small video-viewing parlors pay movie producers showing films saudi arabia part has vowed enact copyright law compatible international standards apply law computer software as well literary works mrs. hills said countries are n't completely hook though remain lower-priority list includes other countries countries japan italy canada greece spain are still concern u.s. are deemed pose less-serious problems american patent copyright owners priority list gary hoffman washington lawyer specializing intellectual-property cases said threat u.s. retaliation combined growing recognition protecting intellectual property is country own interest prompted improvements made south korea taiwan saudi arabia tells is u.s. trade law is working said said mexico be next countries be removed priority list efforts craft new patent law mrs. hills said u.s. is still concerned disturbing developments turkey continuing slow progress malaysia did n't elaborate earlier u.s. trade reports have complained videocassette piracy malaysia disregard u.s. pharmaceutical patents turkey trade act requires mrs. hills issue review performance countries april far mrs. hills has n't deemed cases bad enough merit accelerated investigation so-called special provision act