long day tending searing blackened furnaces panzhihua iron steel co. li wankui like relax away factory parts factory is everywhere is employer political czar dance-committee chairman sprawling compounds house workers families factory operates schools restaurants hospital activities center factory sells mr. li food furniture publishes newspaper even restricts wife child sitting home family dining table mr. li turns evening news is panzhihua factory broadcasting station perky anchorwoman says here 's happened today factory panzhihua is ultimate company town nestled remote mountains southern sichuan province about miles southwest beijing is virtually cut rest china few businesses nearby 's factory leaders build high-rise housing organize sports meets truck fresh fish east coast import television sets japan chinese factory director be mayor u.s. says mr. li do n't think american mayor handle chinese factory decade-long attempt revamp socialist economy china mega-welfare state is alive well health care is free housing costs just pennies food is heavily subsidized panzhihua other big state-run factories workers still count cradle-to-grave safety net factory officials estimate more % work force here is redundant layoffs are n't allowed even factory workers children are guaranteed jobs industrial monoliths are so deeply involved welfare system china leaders never be able modernize glaring economic inefficiency though panzhihua factory is profitable many such enterprises are n't subsidies money-losing enterprises totaled last year about one-third total state revenue life panzhihua factory beats regular rhythm fully absorbs workers such mr. li muscular 38-year-old rises morning a.m. prepare shift is entitled day days work throwing sweat pants t-shirt pops downstairs food shop dozens run factory panzhihua residential area mr. li pay is equivalent about month buys steamed buns rice porridge family breakfast costs quarter eating heads factory panzhihua provides free bus service prefers 20-minute walk gate factory huge sign greets mr. li co-workers happily happily come work donning denims hard hat heads steel-making furnace temperature next reach degrees fahrenheit panzhihua iron steel provides workers many free orange-flavored soft drinks want factory produces drinks in-house lunchtime mr. li walks cafeterias factory operates 's chaotic scene scraps meat bones litter bare concrete floor slop-bucket doorway is filled liquid turned blood-red sichuan peppers hot sauce place does n't look much food is good cheap about cents mr. li buys bowl pork vegetables rice end mr. li workday new shift prepares take factory propaganda officials go work hour relate groups workers latest news views communist party read speeches top leaders slam u.s. sanctions china imposed june massacre pro-democracy protesters beijing want make sure workers have correct opinion events says yuan changyong local party chief propagandists also do part national effort limit births teams officials track contraceptive methods workers employ even chart menstrual cycles female employees work persuasion coercion alternating doses propaganda threats financial penalties unplanned second births zhang shanyun mr. li bosses knows system well many married workers mr. zhang lives alone factory wife remains countryside tending farm land possess mr. zhang wants return farm fill form detailing kind birth-control device wife use document be certified factory officials shown leaders wife village document visit smiles li jihong heads birth-control efforts factory mr. li however is able live wife full-time returns home ties apron begins prepare dinner family most food comes factory buys tons produce year factory sells workers cost means prices are about % handful independent local merchants charge big occasions factory brings special treats earlier year officials shipped in fresh crabs guangdong province turned few workers here hills sichuan had ever seen factory tv station ran broadcast correct way eat guangdong crabs li family home is simple two-room apartment bare concrete floors whitewashed walls basic furniture is provided factory cents month most workers get bed desk bureau engineers also get bookcase mr. li wife xia huaqiong also works factory tending water meters graveyard shift are few prospects upward mobility mr. li daughter seven-year-old li shu is certain toil factory too someday are more workers children li shu is second grade xiangyang village elementary school workers children schools subsidized factory cost more dollars year tuition is about semester mr. li says is content living one-company town concedes pressures all-powerful factory sometimes are tough bear do more excitement says most evenings news leaves wife front tv set wanders restlessly quiet neighborhood pauses frequently greet familiar faces co-workers factory inevitably is drawn cultural center drab five-story structure meeting rooms stores coffee shops large swimming pool dance hall center built run panzhihua iron steel is beginning end social life town mr. li walks upstairs center second-floor library poorly lit room spends many hours leafing thin selection state-controlled periodicals pulls newspaper panzhihua iron steel co daily 's good read mr. li says quite informative today lead story manager zhao inspects operation no. furnace not surprisingly remote outpost many single factory workers here fall love other have very small social circle says ma yongjian company secretary general lot young workers end getting married facilitate such productive arrangements factory organizes dances night often outdoors concrete promenade banks jinshajiang river evening dancers seem reluctant sour eight-piece band plods series chinese pop songs things come life slender woman slinky black dress takes microphone band starts begins sing happy birthday even is n't anyone birthday immediately hundreds couples leap feet rush floor dancing well-rehearsed three-step cheek-to-cheek happy birthday apparently big hit panzhihua lasts glorious minutes band plays romance air mr. li recalls came panzhihua factory chairman mao oddest follies dates mao was sure u.s. perhaps soviet union was planning attack china coast decided set vital industries deep remote interior tens thousands others mr. li was ordered go panzhihua lived straw-and-mud house time says was happy be here carry fight imperialists revisionists today perceived threat has passed factory is thriving keeps mr. li panzhihua partly system workers n't easily be fired also n't easily quit find jobs elsewhere li family apply permission do so has n't tried expect be panzhihua rest life mr. li says no. high school is pretty good have think daughter future others have fled remote factory beginning offered original settlers chance leave many had been forced come often leaving families possessions behind opportunity finally arose thousands workers departed including virtually factory college graduates senior engineers ma zhijie deputy general manager factory trading department wants eight-year-old son have broader horizons believes education is best ticket panzhihua is pushing child excel school teaches english home dream son attend college find good job somewhere else mr. ma says panzhihua isolation is immediately apparent area was limits foreign visitors reporters remains effectively sealed contact outside factory workers know world comes filtered propaganda machine official newspapers television as well political study sessions workers have very sketchy knowledge example pro-democracy movement bloody suppression beijing spring point mr. li repeats theme recent political study class harangues american visitor u.s. sanctions china chinese american people have great warmth other mr. li says tell frankly disagree president bush policy china visitor explains many u.s. sanctions were considered too moderate many americans were incensed killings beijing denounced chinese government well certainly did n't know mr. li says abruptly closes conversation mr. li begins walk back home displays slight limp result back injury last year factory sent northeast china recuperate months expenses paid factory provides free medical care workers families runs modern 500-bed hospital clinics supported year subsidies mr. li dies panzhihua iron steel pay cremation next generation carry hospital zhong desheng director dons doctor smock leads visitor maternity ward factory worker has just given birth baby girl lies bed looking bewildered baby has been snatched nurses placed others tied tight cotton bundle mr. zhong motions wriggling bundles says are future workers panzhihua iron steel britain biggest banks said plan sell jointly owned yorkshire bank group auction raise national westminster bank plc yorkshire bank biggest holder % stake said barclays plc lloyds bank plc royal bank scotland group plc decided sell 250-branch u.k. bank receiving number approaches potential purchasers declined identify possible bidders news conference here yesterday natwest officials said expect potential interest banks continental europe australia u.s yorkshire bank had pretax profit assets last year has britain ninth-largest branch network is viewed market analysts potential target banks aiming boost u.k. presence prior development single market financial services european community analysts have said bank fetch price times pretax profit bill barron natwest general manager said banks decided push ahead sale yesterday sharp stock-market fall london decision was strategic independent market valuations consortium-ownership arrangement dates financial reconstruction yorkshire bank is outmoded increasingly competitive u.k. market analysts say barclays owns % lloyds owns % royal bank scotland owns % yorkshire bank