roller-coaster stock market is making life tougher small companies trying raise money wake friday plunge yesterday rebound companies are already postponing deals others wish other jittery times many small businesses expect particularly rough time raising funds investors shun risky deals seeking safety bigger companies even stock prices fully recover friday sharp decline unsettled conditions frighten many investors implication unsettled situation is thing drop dramatically says henry linsert jr. chairman martek corp. four-year-old biotechnology company is planning private placement stock more variables indicate risk more investor is going drive hard bargain earlier month staples inc. newton mass. office-supplies discounter said accelerate expansion plans nationwide offer more stock public time shares were selling initial offering price bankers believed staples sell new stock hitch company shares standing yesterday new offering seems unlikely company officials say business however continues be robust stock market has n't affected concern expansion plans says todd krasnow senior executive other companies figure n't avoid market have capital requirements says mr. linsert have go ahead planned private placement market goes right back up says take months find money instead columbia md. company have settle lower price adds life is particularly nerve-racking companies had planned go public week hand-holding is becoming investment-banking job requirement robertson stephens co. san francisco investment banking concern has client looked forward making initial public offering yesterday officers company health-care concern were very discouraged friday felt n't go public felt says sanford robertson partner banking concern market dropped friday robertson stephens slashed value offering % yesterday similar securities rebounded bumped valuation again late yesterday ipo was still many situation is especially discouraging market ipos was showing signs strengthening several years weakness were just beginning look increase ipos seeing light end tunnel says frank kline jr. partner lambda funds beverly hills calif. venture capital concern tunnel 's just gotten longer companies planning go public are definitely taking second look says allen hadhazy senior analyst institute econometric research fort lauderdale fla. publishes new issues newsletter ipos calculates recent market slide translated % % reduction ipo proceeds companies many companies are hesitating exabyte corp. had been planning sell % stock week ipo raise now peter behrendt president says 're making decisions day-to-day basis debt-free profitable boulder colo. computer-products concern borrow funds decides ipo now says knowledgeware inc. atlanta computer-software concern says is still planning go ahead ipo week next conditions change 's wait-and-see situation right now says terry mcgowan president delayed financings also affect operations many companies sierra tucson cos. tucson ariz. operator addiction-treatment centers has planned doubling capacity riding ipo scheduled next week william o'donnell president says still thinks ipo succeed does n't says company have change expansion timetable market turmoil be partially beneficial small businesses sagging market federal reserve system flood market funds bring interest rates down says leonard t. anctil vice president bank new england boston james g. zafris president danvers savings bank danvers mass. says market turmoil is absolute non-event small business small companies says interest rates are far more important happens stock exchanges mr. zafris thinks rates are heading down helping small companies peter drake biotechnology analyst vector securities international chicago thinks market uncertainty encourage small companies form more strategic alliances big corporations partly market crash made harder find financing many high-technology concerns have made such alliances recently even see silver lining dark clouds alan wells president bollinger wells lett co. new york merger specialist thinks panicky investors lose enthusiasm leveraged buy-out giant takeover deals instead turn investing smaller deals involving smaller companies says william e. wetzel jr. university new hampshire management professor director venture capital network inc. says market gyrations underline investors lack control big stock investments add appeal small business says investors often have degree influence