government sold deposits savings-and-loan institutions first wave sales big sick thrifts low bids prevented sale fifth s&ls were sold large banks was case most previous transactions initiated resolution trust corp. was created s&l bailout legislation months ago big thrifts were sold ncnb corp. charlotte n.c. has aggressively expanded markets particularly texas florida canadian bank bought thrift first rtc transaction foreign bank deals rtc sells just deposits healthy assets clean-bank transactions leave bulk bad assets mostly real estate government be sold later instance rtc is stuck bad assets acquirers paid premiums ranging % % deposits branch systems roughly line analysts were expecting buyers also be locked deposit rates just weeks has been case previous deals buyers repudiate rates paid former thrifts 's uncertain institutions take steps ncnb example has been highest rate payers texas market florida rates are especially sensitive retirement communities rtc had previously targeted thrifts quick sales order spend cash certain budgetary deadlines delays illustrate tough chore facing agency thrifts are beached whales said bert ely industry consultant based alexandria va example delay selling people heritage savings salina kan. assets has forced rtc consider selling thrift branch-by-branch instead whole institution ncnb continued foray florida texas markets ncnb acquire university federal savings association houston had assets ncnb texas national bank pay rtc premium deposits measure depths texas real estate market has sunk rtc pay ncnb take bad assets ncnb also acquired freedom savings loan association tampa fla. had total assets ncnb pay rtc premium deposits ncnb also acquire freedom assets rtc require assistance meridian bancorp inc. reading pa. acquire hill financial savings association red hill pa. had assets meridian pay premium assume deposits also purchase thrift assets rtc assistance first rtc transaction foreign buyer royal trustco ltd. toronto acquire pacific savings bank costa mesa calif. had assets royal trustco pay rtc assume deposits also purchase assets receive assistance rtc