eastman kodak co. seeking position potentially huge high-definition television market unveiled converter transform conventional motion-picture film high-definition video move also helps rochester n.y. photographic giant ensure motion-picture film business holds virtual monopoly supplying hollywood movie company is n't made obsolete upstart hdtv business prototype converter is costly 's being lauded infant hdtv industry way increasing number high-quality shows be seen new medium industry has been waiting bated breath machines come along says david niles president productions inc. new york pioneer high-definition programming notes industry executives have now worried face severe shortage programs consumers begin replacing tv sets hdtvs japanese electronic giants such sony corp. hitachi ltd. have focused almost entirely hdtv hardware virtually ignored software programs shot high-definition only handful small u.s. companies are engaged high-definition software development 's estimated that just about hours hd programming is currently available airing kodak says new ccd hdtv converter help alleviate problem allowing programmers broadcasters convert movies television programs shot motion-picture film high-definition video consumers be able switch hdtv sets get viewing benefits high-tech medium offers otherwise be watching programs are no different quality currently view color tvs be watching black white movie color tv set says malcolm g. saull chairman film video department rochester institute technology new converters are critical link film television domain says joerg d. agin vice president general manager kodak motion picture audiovisual products division kodak n't disclose cost converter be market 's estimated machine be available years similar machine already market made rank sintel ltd. unit rank organisation costs about potential market is tremendous industry experts say hdtv takes u.s. be demand some hdtv converters known industry telecines demand come first programming production companies then television stations converter is head shoulders anything else 've seen says richard j. stumpf vice president engineering development mca inc. universal city studios mr. niles program producer contends kodak move is sound marketing decision n't afford stay hdtv indeed stakes are high u.s. electronics industry estimates hdtv market total about next decades additional expected go related products hdtvs break images more lines compared today televisions providing considerably sharper detail sets are wider resembling dimensions movie screen financial rewards are n't expected soon are guaranteed experts estimate first sets hdtvs n't be available years probably retail more today dollars critics say n't be quickly embraced consumers high price nevertheless kodak n't risk letting hdtv turn motion-picture film business dinosaur kodak understands hdtv is everybody is going says rit mr. spaull